Five St. John's football players among crop of area athletes finalizing college plans
Friday
Feb 9, 2018 at 7:58 PM Feb 9, 2018 at 8:09 PM
By Carl Setterlund, Correspondent
SHREWSBURY — After posting statistically the best season of any quarterback in Central Mass. history and leading St. John’s to a 13-0 season and the Division 3 Super Bowl last fall, Pioneers senior Steven Bucciaglia put pen to paper to join the incoming class of Assumption College football players in a National Letter of Intent signing ceremony Friday in the lobby at the high school's Coaches Pavilion.
The T&G Hometeam Offensive Player of the Year already has played on the turf at Multi-Sport Stadium a few times before, splitting two classic games against rival Shrewsbury High in 2016 and then beating Doherty High, 32-21, at Assumption in the CMass Division 3 semifinals this past November.
“As a junior, the idea didn’t really cross my mind, but this past year, we played there again, and I thought to myself, ‘This could be my future field,’ ” Bucciaglia said. “(Special teams) coach (Mike) Foley, who played at Assumption, said that to me before the game, and then it just felt like a natural thing.”
The 6-foot-1 Bucciaglia, who set CMass records in passing yards (3,601), touchdowns (45) and completion percentage (72 percent), joins a Greyhounds program that won 11 games last year and advanced to a Division 2 national quarterfinal.
However, he’ll be playing for first-year coach Andy McKenzie, who was previously the offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach at Holy Cross from 2008-15. Meanwhile, former Assumption coach Bob Chesney, who posted a 44-16 record in five seasons, took over the top job at Holy Cross.
“I met coach (last) McKenzie Saturday, and I made my decision then,” Bucciaglia said. “He just seemed like a great guy, very knowledgeable and quarterback-oriented, so that gave me a little extra reason to go there.”
On the other side of the city, Chesney lured three of Bucciaglia’s teammates to join his rebuild at Fitton Field, where St. John’s plays on Thanksgiving.
Linebacker Liam Doran, the T&G Hometeam Defensive Player of the Year, along with fellow Super Team offensive tackle Neal Nasuti and running back Peter Oliver, signed their NLIs on Friday afternoon to play in the Division 1 Football Championship Subdivision for Chesney’s Crusaders.
“What’s really cool is college football in Central Massachusetts is really on the rise, from Assumption College to Holy Cross and everywhere in between,” said St. John’s coach John Andreoli, who played for the Crusaders.
“Our guys, when they leave still stay such a part of our program, and they’re an inspiration to the younger kids, so it’s just wonderful having them all so close so we can still watch them play in college,” Andreoli added.
Doran and Nasuti cited Chesney as a motivator for choosing Holy Cross. The 6-foot-4 Nasuti flipped his commitment from another Patriot League school, Lafayette, while Oliver was previously expected to play at Harvard.
“Basically as soon as Chesney got hired, within like a week or so I started getting communications,” Nasuti said. “That was pretty cool to see that, as soon as he got in there, Chesney started looking at Worcester guys.”
The 6-foot-1 Doran, who tips the scales at 215 pounds, said he’s planning to add weight to transition to defensive end.
“I just feel like something special is going to happen there the next couple years with (Chesney) there,” Doran said. “My recruiting process was pretty quick, really over the course of a weekend. As soon as the opportunity was given, I took it because I knew that I wanted to be there.”
Oliver’s father, Jeff, is the head strength and conditioning coach at Holy Cross.
A fifth St. John’s standout, 6-foot-5 two-way star, Hunter Gorgas, cemented his future to play in Division 1 FCS at the University of Rhode Island.
“Their football program is up and coming, we have very, very good recruits coming in the 2018 class, and I loved the coaches,” Gorgas said. “(Tight ends) coach (Mike) Flanagan is a great guy, and he’s the first one who recruited me and offered me, and I’m looking forward to learning under him the next four years.”
Area grid stars decide
In addition to the St. John's players, several other area football stars accepted scholarships to Division 1 or Division 2 schools this week.
Bucciaglia will have plenty of familiar faces around with the Greyhounds, as St. Peter-Marian's Danny Malm, Lunenburg's George "Trey" Tibbetts and Leciester's Kyle Padeni will join him at Assumption in the fall.
Nashoba's Kyle Hume will play at Merrimack, and teammate Breese Hill will head to Bentley. St. Peter-Marian's Josh Pace will play at the University of New Haven, Assabet's William Soto will play at Wagner, and Wachusett's Patrick Walsh will head to Harvard.
Full list of athletes
The following is a chart of all area student-athletes who signed National Letters of Intent this week, as supplied by area coaches and athletic directors:
High SchoolAthleteSportCollege  AMSA  Calvin Fillios  Soccer  Franklin Pierce  Assabet  William Soto  Football  Wagner College  Grafton  Madison Murphy  Soccer  Boston College  Grafton  Erin Tyldesley  Soccer  Merrimack College  Leicester  Kyle Padeni  Football  Assumption  Lunenburg  Emma Houston  Soccer  St. Michael's  Lunenburg  George "Trey" Tibbetts  Football  Assumption  Nashoba  Alana Carlucci  Soccer  Bucknell  Nashoba  Brooke English  Soccer  Assumption  Nashoba`  Grace Keith  Soccer  Holy Cross  Nashoba  Breese Hill  Football  Bentley  Nashoba  Kyle Hume  Football  Merrimack  Shrewsbury  Christopher Campbell  Lacrosse  University of Hartford  Shrewsbury  Jack Tepper  Lacrosse  UMass-Lowell  Shrewsbury  Collin Hay  Crew  University of Delaware  St. Bernard's  Matt Aronson  Baseball  UMass-Lowell  St. John's  Liam Doran  Football  Holy Cross  St. John's  Neal Nasuti  Football  Holy Cross  St. John's  Peter Oliver  Football  Holy Cross  St. John's  Hunter Gorgas  Football  University of Rhode Island  St. John's  Steven Bucciaglia  Football  Assumption  St. Peter-Marian  Danny Malm  Football  Assumption  St. Peter-Marian  Josh Pace  Football  University of New Haven  Valley Tech  Viviana Sebastiano  Soccer  College of St. Rose  Valley Tech  Caroline Porter  Soccer  American International College  Wachusett  Patrick Walsh  Football  Harvard  Westboro  Tyler Stott  Soccer  Boston College  Worcester Academy  Nilou Asdigha  Soccer  Troy  Worcester Academy  Greg Barilla  Soccer  Boston College  Worcester Academy  Graham Brenner  Soccer  UMass-Amherst  Worcester Academy  Nate Cole  Soccer  Boston University  Worcester Academy  Drew Collari  Soccer  Suffolk  Worcester Academy  Stas Curreri  Soccer  Southern New Hampshire  Worcester Academy  Rachel Diodati  Soccer  Colgate  Worcester Academy  Anisha Hill  Soccer  University of Bridgeport  Worcester Academy  Owen Krisak  Soccer  Seton Hall  Worcester Academy  Alli Pestaina  Soccer  University of Cincinnati
Never miss a story
Choose the plan that's right for you.
Digital access or digital and print delivery.
