California would bar organized tackle football before high school under new bill
The LAPD-coached youth football team Watts Bears (in white) pursue a member of the Southern California Falcons during a 2013 game. The players are 7 to 9 years old. (Irfan Khan / Los Angeles Times)
California would become the first state to prohibit minors from playing organized tackle football before high school under a proposal made Thursday by lawmakers concerned about the health risks.
Just days after the Super Bowl, Assembly members Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento) and Lorena Gonzalez Fletcher (D-San Diego) said they are introducing the “Safe Youth Football Act,” legislation that will be considered this year by state lawmakers.
Under the bill, organized tackle football would be allowed starting with high school freshmen.
Read More
Feb. 8, 2018, 10:46 a.m.
Congressional races
New report reveals more about Rep. Duncan Hunter and the investigation into his campaign
(David Brooks / San Diego Union-Tribune)
The FBI investigation into whether GOP Rep. Duncan Hunter of Alpine misused campaign funds for personal expenses appears to be intensifying, according to a report by Politico . The website revealed that additional grand jury subpoenas have been issued to people close to the five-term congressman. Here are some key new pieces of information from Politico’s report:
• Hunter’s parents and a female lobbyist he knows have received grand jury subpoenas. That followed a raid last February in which the FBI seized computers and documents from Hunter’s campaign finance compliance firm. According to Politico, Hunter’s wife and former campaign manager, Margaret Hunter, is at the center of the investigation and made many of the purchases in question. A subpoena was also issued to a business in Hunter’s district in December, according to the San Diego Union-Tribune .
• Hunter was surprised by the results of a review by an outside law firm his campaign hired to look at spending. In April 2016, more than $1,300 in video game purchases caught the attention of the Federal Election Commission and the Union-Tribune. Afterward, Hunter hired a law firm to review his campaign spending . Sources told Politico that Hunter was “shocked” when the review turned up more than $60,000 in improper campaign expenditures, which he later repaid and blamed on his wife. They included payments to a dentist, nail salons , theme parks, trips to Italy and $600 to fly the family’s pet rabbit.  Hunter has said his wife no longer has access to the campaign credit card.
Read More
Feb. 8, 2018, 9:45 a.m.
State government
By Patrick McGreevy
Feb 08, 2018 | 9:45 AM
Will drugged driving be a problem now that pot's legal in California? This lawmaker wants the state to find out
Orange County sheriff's Deputy Jeff Puckett, left, checks a motorist's identification at a DUI checkpoint. (Al Schaben / Los Angeles Times)
With recreational marijuana sales now legal in California, one lawmaker wants to find out whether drugged driving is going to be a significant problem.
Assemblyman Ed Chau (D-Arcadia) has introduced a bill that would require all local law enforcement agencies to file annual reports with the state Department of Motor Vehicles detailing the number of arrests made for driving under the influence and the number of those arrests in which pot was suspected to be the substance causing impairment.
“Currently, the state has no uniform mechanism in place to evaluate cannabis drugged driving arrests as a result of legalization,” Chau said.
Read More
