The findings and recommendations in the draft report await final approval by Gen. Thomas D. Waldhauser, the head of Africa Command.
A spokesman for Africa Command in Stuttgart did not return a request for comment on Friday.
The distance between military officials in Stuttgart and troops operating in African nations has long been a source of tension for American forces assigned to Africa Command. Mission planning is often complicated by bureaucratic hurdles that ground troops have navigated, in part by understating threats in their respective areas, so patrols can be organized and approved at lower levels.
Officials with knowledge of the investigative report say it describes a string of errors and bad decision-making that, together, may have led to last fall’s ambush outside the Nigerien village of Tongo Tongo. Fallout from the deaths threw the White House into crisis and prompted Congress to demand answers about what the soldiers were doing before the attack.
The draft report also details a breakdown in communications that may have stemmed from a failure by members of the American and Nigerien team, and their superiors, to check their equipment before heading out on the Oct. 4 mission.
As the unit came under attack, soldiers were unable to speak directly to French air support who flew out to help. Instead, the soldiers’ location coordinates were relayed through officers in Niamey, the capital, more than 100 miles away.
Senior Defense officials initially said that the investigation into the ambush, conducted by Maj. Gen. Roger L. Cloutier Jr., the Africa Command’s chief of staff, would be concluded by January. The report is now completed and has been circulating in the Pentagon, Defense Department officials said. But its public release has been delayed until after General Waldhauser appears before the Senate Armed Services Committee to present the command’s annual “posture hearing,” scheduled for the last week of February.
Defense officials said that the delay in part aims to keep senators from focusing on the Niger ambush during the hearing and, in turn, excoriating General Waldhauser when he testifies before the committee.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Military officials are preparing three separate versions of the report. A classified version will be shown to lawmakers and others with security clearances and a public version will be given to the news media. The third version will be given to the families of the four American soldiers who were killed.
Photo
An United States Marines adviser speaks with the leaders of an African special forces unit during a training exercise. In response to an October ambush that killed four Americans and five Nigeriens, some of these missions will be curtailed. Credit Master Sgt. Jeremiah Erickson/United States Air Force
Some current and former Pentagon policy officials and military commanders in Africa expressed skepticism about curtailing the training and advising missions in which American troops accompany local forces on ground patrols in West Africa.
“I’m not sure retreating from programs is the answer,” said Brian McKeon, a former top Pentagon policy official who visited Niger in 2015. “If we’re not going to do that kind of training, why are we there?”
Officials said that the scaling back of those missions, as called for in the report, would not apply to Libya or Somalia, where the United States has been engaging with local forces to fight the Islamic State and the militant group aligned with Al Qaeda known as the Shabab.
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
