Trump Wants a Parade, Liberals Call it “Fascist”
Posted By: admin on:
Print Email
Since coming onto the political scene in a big way, Donald Trump has not kept secret his love of military spectacle. On many occasions, he has openly admired the grand military parades that many of our allies (and, yes, some of our enemies) hold in honor of their own might, and he has expressed interest in doing something similar in the streets of D.C. Now, according to a new report in the Washington Post, Trump is getting closer to making his vision a reality…and liberals naturally think it’s the worst idea they’ve ever heard.
Which, to be honest, may be part of the point.
From WaPo:
Trump has long mused publicly and privately about wanting such a parade, but a Jan. 18 meeting between Trump and top generals in the Pentagon’s tank — a room reserved for top-secret discussions — marked a tipping point, according to two officials briefed on the planning.
Surrounded by the military’s highest-ranking officials, including Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., Trump’s seemingly abstract desire for a parade was suddenly heard as a presidential directive, the officials said.
“The marching orders were: I want a parade like the one in France,” said a military official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the planning discussions are supposed to remain confidential. “This is being worked at the highest levels of the military.”
This is brilliant, even if it winds up costing a fortune. For one thing, this is the perfect opportunity for the White House to shine a light on veterans’ issues in a way that a simple speech on a holiday cannot. Second, if done right, it could rally Americans around the military and demonstrate in no uncertain terms to some of our more stubborn enemies that they would be unwise to push this president past the breaking point. But perhaps most satisfyingly, it forces liberal Democrats to (once again) show voters just how much they hate this country.
In fact, even as the news was announced, we had representatives of the left making Nazi allusions. Apparently patriotism is now equivalent to evil, which is why Monique Judge of The Root headlined her story: “Trump wants a military parade because fascism isn’t coming to America fast enough.” And in the article, she asks: “Will he ask our soldiers to march by him, look to the right while they high-step, hands in the air, and say, ‘Heil Trump’?”
Oh, it never gets old, these loony comparisons between Trump and Hitler. Every time, it reminds us that so many liberals live in a fantasy world of their own invention, cut off from the rest of normal society, and utterly brainwashed by the worst of the blogosphere. Trump’s campaign and presidency has been a great clarifying moment for anyone who hadn’t yet figured out just how radical the political left has become. This parade, spectacular as it will undoubtedly be, may be the last spotlight we need to send these roaches scattering.
