Donald John Trump Tillerson: Russia already looking to interfere in 2018 midterms Dems pick up deep-red legislative seat in Missouri Speier on Trump's desire for military parade: 'We have a Napoleon in the making' MORE on Friday expressed displeasure with the government funding bill just moments after he signed it into law, ending a brief federal shutdown.
In a pair of tweets, Trump said Republicans were “forced” to increase spending because there are too many Democrats in Congress.
Without more Republicans in Congress, we were forced to increase spending on things we do not like or want in order to finally, after many years of depletion, take care of our Military. Sadly, we needed some Dem votes for passage. Must elect more Republicans in 2018 Election!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 9, 2018
 
The president lauded the bill for the increase in military spending but said Republicans had to fill the bill with “waste” in order to get Democratic approval. Trump also noted that Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) provisions were not included in the bill and said negotiations for the program will "start now!"
Costs on non-military lines will never come down if we do not elect more Republicans in the 2018 Election, and beyond. This Bill is a BIG VICTORY for our Military, but much waste in order to get Dem votes. Fortunately, DACA not included in this Bill, negotiations to start now!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 9, 2018
 
More than two-thirds of Republicans in the Senate voted for the spending package early Friday morning after Sen. Rand Paul
Randal (Rand) Howard Paul Pentagon: War in Afghanistan will cost  billion in 2018 Overnight Finance: Senators near two-year budget deal | Trump would 'love to see a shutdown' over immigration | Dow closes nearly 600 points higher after volatile day | Trade deficit at highest level since 2008 | Pawlenty leaving Wall Street group Rand Paul calls for punishment if Congress can't reach a long-term budget deal MORE (R-Ky.) held up the vote.
Paul railed against it on the Senate floor into the early hours of Friday morning, saying Republicans did not run for election promising to bust through budget caps and raise the debt ceiling.
House conservatives also rebelled against the bill, but it still passed the House by a 240-186 margin early Friday morning.
