   
Femail Today
Sisters who competed to snare world's richest men: New book reveals jealousy between Jackie O and sister Lee which led to both of them sleeping with JFK 
Spitting image! Sailor Brinkley Cook looks identical to mom Christie as she poses in skimpy bikinis for new Sports Illustrated Swimsuit video 
Grey's Anatomy's Eric Dane and Rebecca Gayheart file for divorce after 14 year marriage Gayheart, 46, is seeking spousal support and joint legal and physical custody of their two girls
'Thank you my love': Pregnant Khloe Kardashian posts gushing tribute to beau Tristan Thompson as they pose in front of Valentine's Day display
Trump refused to answer whether the country's gun laws need to be changed as he and Melania go to hospital to meet Florida massacre victims and praise first responders 
Why can't Jennifer Aniston find a lasting love? ALISON BOSHOFF asks the question that sends the Friends actress into a rage as her marriage to Justin Theroux ends
Trump 'had affair' with Playboy Playmate three months after Melania gave birth, with model claiming he tried to pay her for sex and silence her with $150k 
Holding on by a thread? Melania ignores Donald as he tries to grab her THUMB when they arrive in Florida amid Playboy Playmate affair scandal Frosty encounter
Mom on-the-go! Jessica Alba breastfeeds newborn son Hayes in Target dressing room Her son is two months old
Curves ahead! Victoria's Secret models Josephine Skriver, Georgia Fowler and Roosmarijn De Kok pose TOPLESS for risque lingerie shoot
Cardi B looks far from pregnant as she flashes flat tummy in new video where she sings in her bra... as fiance Offset denies rumors she's with child
Star in stripes! Margot Robbie wows in chic blouse and matching trousers as she attends screening of I, Tonya She is nominated for a BAFTA and Oscar 
Black Panther actress said cast and crew were 'testifying to God's miracles' during breaks on set while 'church' atmosphere could be felt during filming 
Love is in the air! Kate Mara and husband Jamie Bell can't take their hands off each other as they jet into LA They recently tied the knot 
Rihanna bundles up in elaborate furry coat as she jets into NY... but keeps it comfortable in sweatpants and boots Very relaxing lounge-wear
Justin Bieber returns to NBA Celebrity All-Star game seven years after winning MVP... but is once again on the losing team He won the MVP the last time he played 
EXCLUSIVE: Justin Theroux packs luggage into SUV on Valentine's Day as actor gets out of NYC with brother, a day before announcing split from Jennifer Aniston
Adam Levine and Behati Prinsloo welcome second baby girl together... and her name is interesting Joyful moment for Voice judge and model wife
Make-up free Uma Thurman steps out with daughter Maya Hawke in NYC... after leveling accusations against Harvey Weinstein  Has kept a low profile recently
White hot! Demi Rose sizzles in body-hugging slashed mini dress as she turns heads at London Fashion Week   The 22-year-old British model is Tyga's ex
Katie Holmes shimmies her way along the street to amuse boyfriend Jamie Foxx as they head to play basketball  They looked so happy
Expert advice! Porn star Dillion Harper, 26,
shares her top tips for how to maintain your bikini line without going to the salon - detailing products and technique
Bling it on! Jennifer Lopez, 49, nearly spills out of low-cut bra top as she flashes $186K diamond Cartier ring Alex Rodriguez gave her for V-Day
RHONY Luann de Lesseps' ex husband Tom D'Agostino 'investigated by Palm Beach police after hurling drinks at business rival'
Mr. Tiffany Trump no more! First daughter's ex-boyfriend Ross Mechanic confirms split by sharing picture of himself kissing his new girlfriend on Instagram
Just the girls! Selena Gomez gets facial with assistant after spending Valentine's Day with Justin Bieber The 25-year-old actress swapped the Biebs
'Uh oh... did we lose him?' Jamie Foxx storms off mid-interview after being asked about Katie Holmes at All-Star celebrity basketball game
The dope show! Marilyn Manson has 'meltdown' on stage with bizarre extended rant before leaving early Restless fans started chanting for a refund 
EXCLUSIVE: No intimate pics, no men's clothes, no Justin! Clues in Jen Aniston shoot that her marriage was over as she puts $75M home on market
Awkward moment Jen Aniston put on a brave face as Ellen DeGeneres made a joke about her marriage to Justin Theroux days before they announced split
'There was a little shrinkage!' Courtney Dober spills about 'embarrassing' downstairs situation during his American TV debut on Bachelor Winter Games
Heating up the ice! From dozens of dazzling designs, FEMAIL reveals the best-dressed figure skating outfits at the Winter Olympics in South Korea
Doing their part! Shirtless Jaden Smith plants trees with sister Willow and his girlfriend Odessa Adlon The kids of Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith
Fake pics being shared online of 'racial assaults' by 'black thugs' at Black Panther screenings include Rob Porter's ex-wife  Social media trolls
Jennifer Lawrence reveals she felt so 'comfortable' being nude on Red Sparrow set she 'probably started making everybody else uncomfortable'
Prince Henrik's coffin is draped in Danish flag and taken on a stately procession to the Christiansborg Palace after family pays private respects
'They've been leading separate lives since August': Jennifer Aniston 'stopped regular visits to Justin Theroux's NYC home months ago' 
Bicycle used by Diana until palace advisors deemed it 'unfit for a princess' could sell for $12,000 at auction  The blue Raleigh traveller 
'I just know he loves me by the way he looks at me': Chloe Lattanzi shares gushing tribute to 'husband' James Driskill... as she vows to make another album
'I have this extension of a family and it's been really amazing:' Selena Gomez's kidney donor Francia Raisa says surgery drew them much closer
He's all wrapped up! Adam Driver is unrecognizable as the Invisible Man as he films Halloween scene for Noah Baumbach's new project 
Lingerie model Hannah Ferguson looks stunning in skimpy string bikini for Solid & Striped shoot The 25-year-old starlet designed the two-piece for the spring collection
Iskra Lawrence displays her impressive cleavage in tiny red bralet as she leads the glamour at glitzy Isabel Kristensen LFW show The body confidence champion
Been there, done that? Kate Moss cuts a casual figure as she shuns London Fashion Week shows for a stroll around the capital  She's a supermodel
Leggy Lottie goes braless in strapless mini dress and thigh-high boots as she leads the stars at glitzy London Fashion Week party Kate's little sister
Pixie Geldof displays her edgy style in a black quilted jacket and blue camo jeans at Ashley Williams' London Fashion Week show Dressed to impress
Kylie Minogue shares behind-the-scenes photos of her time filming Swinging Safari which say her play '70s mother that enters a wife-swapping party
'They said it couldn't be done but we did it!': Chris Hemsworth  celebrates conquering mountain top with hilarious video poking fun at his trainer
All bundled up! Victoria's Secret darling Elsa Hosk layers red and black leather jacket over baggy grey sweater for jaunt in NYC Originally from Stockholm 
Another day, another bikini! Victoria's Secret vet Alessandra Ambrosio flaunts her taut tummy while on a Mexican getaway The Brazilian model
Keeping it low-key!  Lorde opts for comfort as she rocks a pair of Yeezys with grey chinos and a white long-sleeved T-shirt at LAX airport She's just 21
Move over Gigi! Dascha Polanco and lookalike daughter Dasany watch Hollywood's next generation walk the runway Making it as a model can be tough
It's a different kind of runway! Bella Hadid shows off her model creds in silky pink jumpsuit as she jets into LAX after New York Fashion Week
Actor Hugo Weaving rugs up in black overcoat to walk the red carpet of the Black 47 premiere in Berlin The Hacksaw Ridge star hit the red carpet
Parents getaway! Chelsea Clinton and husband Marc jet out of New York City without their kids The couple have two children together
He still has a job! Kris Jenner films Keeping Up With The Kardashians episode with Kourtney's ex Scott Disick He split up with Kourtney in 2015
Style Swoon: From Nicky Hilton's new mommy-and-me line to stylish ways to celebrate the Year of the Dog, FEMAIL rounds up the fashions that got our attention this week
PLATELL'S PEOPLE: Hollywood's female stars came out in force to launch the Me Too campaign, so where is all the luvvie outrage on Oxfam?
'I have a broken heart': Lena Dunham, 31, shares heartfelt message while leaving hospital after hysterectomy and split from Jack
Suddenly we all want a Corgi... and it's down to three doggy doubles who play the Queen's best friends in royal dramas The Crown and The King's Speech 
No longer a mystery! Vanderpump Rules' Stassi Schroeder's hunky new boyfriend revealed to be commercial casting associate Beau Clark
'We gave it all away!': Drake donates his $1million music video budget to a women's shelter and firefighters in Miami Generous donation
Figure skater Adam Rippon reveals he spent years starving himself to be thin for the judges, often eating just three pieces of bread a day as he opens up about eating disorders
White hot! Cody Simpson, 21, enjoys a coffee date with his dad... after revealing he was 'single and ready to mingle' On the market
Meat supplier for Jamie Oliver's restaurants and Hilton hotels faces claims it sold foreign beef as British  Allegations
Call me maybe? Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt both single for first time in 13 years... but they 'haven't talked in ages' and his six kids makes it 'complicated'
Keeping casual! Ben Affleck enjoys low key stroll with girlfriend Lindsay Shookus... after ex Jennifer Garner spotted with mystery man
Revealed: Garrison Keillor was brought down by disgruntled ex staffer fired after 16 years who told execs host was inappropriate with women
EXCLUSIVE: Michael Jackson's half-sister reveals how dad Joe carried on 25-year affair with her mom by pretending to be on business trips 
Beauty and the best: Millie Bobby Brown's POLKA-DOTTED smoky eye and Zendaya's striking red lip topped the front row celebrity hair and make-up moments this NYFW
Talk about flash(back) Friday! Heidi Klum shares provocative NUDE snaps of herself from 2001 - and proves she hasn't aged a day in nearly 20 years
'He's a hypocrite': Susan Sarandon SLAMS Australian Deputy PM Barnaby Joyce over his affair scandal claiming 'men who are most right-wing always lead a double life' 
'I wouldn't wish any of that s**t on anyone!' Liam Gallagher weighs in on ex Nicole Appleton's scandal with British stars Paddy and Christine McGuinness
Televangelist Jim Bakker, 78, encourages viewers to prepare for end of world by buying his survival products - including 7 years of food for $2,200
Seeing double? Russian figure skaters perform routine inspired by La La Land - and now the male athlete is being compared to Hollywood hunk Ryan Gosling
Lisa Marie Presley is $16MILLION IN DEBT as ex Michael Lockwood is demanding she pay $450K in HIS lawyer fees Difficult days for Elvis' girl
Justin Theroux seen out with two women in New York City days before shocking news broke of his separation  from wife Jennifer Aniston
Make-up's finest hour! On the eve of the Baftas, the awesome special effects that turned Darkest Hour star Gary Oldman into Churchill  The British awards
Gone in a flash! Kanye West deletes his Instagram posts after wishing wife Kim Kardashian a Happy Valentine's Day They just vanished
Bohemian chic! Kylie Minogue flashes a peek of cleavage in a plunging maxidress... after facing backlash for charging fans $1,680 for a meet and greet
Laura Dern, Shailene Woodley and Zoe Kravitz confirmed to join Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman and Meryl Streep for Big Little Lies 2
Cozy Caitlyn! Jenner wraps up in a cardigan as she goes casual in skinny jeans to run errands in Los Angeles Rounded out the look with stilettos
'I get uncomfortable and insecure': Pregnant Khloe Kardashian reveals sex 'became harder' and 'limiting' as she entered third trimester
Sculpt your abs and save your back: Soul Sisters fitness duo reveals the core exercises that skip the strain  Top tips
Instant chemistry! Caitriona Balfe nails her Outlander audition with Sam Heughan in never-seen-before clip Sparks flew from start as video reveals
Mia Wasikowska turns heads in a plunging black gown as she hits the red carpet with Robert Pattinson for Damsel premiere at Berlin Film Festival
Looking for booty? Smitten Alex Rodriguez places his hand on Jennifer Lopez's backside as he treats her to jewelry shopping in Miami
Still stunning at 71! All My Children actress Susan Lucci shows off her toned legs in strapless swimsuit as she walks the beach in Barbados
Disgraced televangelist Jim Bakker, 78, encourages viewers to prepare for the end of the world by buying his survival products - including 7 years of food for $2,200
The Meghan Markle effect! Royal bride-to-be sends sales of black pants soaring by 40 per cent and inspires celebrity copycats Sexy Suits actress 
Chris Rock recalls humiliating time Rihanna rejected his advances and 'looked at me like I was one of her aunts' Approached singer at a party after his divorce
Keri Russell, 41, puffs on a cigarette as she takes a break on the New York City set of FX drama The Americans with co-star Margo Martindale
Emily Mortimer, 46,  dazzles in an elegant black ball gown with eye-catching oversized bow for The Bookshop premiere at Berlin Film Festival
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Putting it firmly behind her! Model Jen Selter sports tiny bikini after revealing 'nightmare' of being thrown off American Airlines flight
Monochrome magic! Olivia Culpo turns heads in black and white as she hits the stores in New York She was on the hunt for shoes 
Fasion guru Tommy Hilfiger chops another $4 million off the price of his colorful, pop art-filled Florida mansion complete with scratch- and-sniff wallpaper
Prince Andrew's American actress ex Koo Stark is in high spirits as she mingles the literary crowd at a book launch in London She's now 61
Teyana Taylor celebrates with Missy Elliot and Lil' Kim as she opens a '90s-themed nail salon in Harlem, New York, called Junie Bee Nails
Ariel Winter flaunts her eye-popping cleavage in tiny crop top and leggings as she swings heavy ropes in intense fitness routine Working out hard
'This is a huge moment for us and for black people': Tennis star Serena Williams and husband Alexis Ohanian help throw Black Panther screening
'I wanna be around you': Malika Haqq tearfully confronts Khloe after her BFF moves in with her beau on Keeping Up With The Kardashians
'Buenos Dias': Supermodel Alessandra Ambrosio, 36, shows off her perky derriere in nude bikini while on a dream vacation in Mexico
EXCLUSIVE: R Kelly is being EVICTED from his 'abandoned' Georgia home used to keep the women who were part of alleged 'sex cult'  - for non-payment of $25k 
New BFFS! Jennifer Lawrence chats up Chelsea Handler during Amy Schumer's surprise Malibu wedding Pair had great time 
A sheer delight! Evan Rachel Wood performs in see-through tank top and suspenders at Hollywood's Hotel Cafe She put her singing prowess on display.
EXCLUSIVE: 'It was so scary!' Human Ken Doll Rodrigo Alves reveals he was locked inside a store after being mobbed... as he turns heads in dazzling suit
'Congressmen stuff their pockets with money from the NRA': Teary Jimmy Kimmel brands Trump 'mentally ill' for failing to act on gun control
EXCLUSIVE: Michael Fassbender's ex claims he threw her over a chair, breaking her nose, and dragged her with his car Alicia Vikander's hubby
Jewelry experts reveal what women REALLY think a 'big diamond' looks like on an engagement ring - and why many see Meghan Markle's as perfect pick
Sports Illustrated Swimsuit star Myla Dalbesio reveals shocking abuse she suffers as a model, as she makes a bold statement in magazine
That's one way to get the message across! Topless vegan protesters storm London Fashion Week in furious flash mob staged by PETA
'You had ONE job!' Kourtney Kardashian leaves fans in hysterics as they spot glaring TYPOs on her Valentine's Day gift to mom Kris Jenner
Huma Abedin struts her stuff down a New York street in knee-high boots and a bold scarf after hobnobbing with fashion elite at New York Fashion Week
Getting busy! Lionel Richie takes girlfriend Lisa Parisa to dinner with pals as he preps for return of American Idol and his Las Vegas shows
'I told everyone I was having a baby!' Natalie Portman reveals she mistakenly thought her water broke... but found out it was just a leaky water bottle
Valentine's Day isn't over yet! Model Pia Muehlenbeck sets Instagram alight as she flaunts her busty assets in VERY skimpy red lingerie
Rob Pattinson brands love 'complicated' after 'friendly reunion' with ex Kristen Stewart... as he joins Mia Wasikowska at Berlin Film Festival
Sister act! Paris Hilton and Nicky Hilton Rothschild ooze glamour as they pose side-by-side at the New York Fashion Week Monse party
Who will get custody of their fur children? Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux will have to sort ownership of their dogs after shock breakup
Alone again: Jennifer Aniston is seen for first time since announcing the end of her two-year marriage to Justin Theroux  At Sony Studios in LA
Plaid to see you! Karlie Kloss looks ready for a weekend in Scotland as she's spotted at airport... after a glamorous New York Fashion Week
Kate the curator! Duchess of Cambridge will personally select pictures for new National Portrait Gallery show in London A keen photographer
Jennifer Aniston throws herself into work as she focuses on new show with Reese Witherspoon in wake of split from Justin Theroux
Emma Roberts puts her legs on parade in tiny shorts and heels as she joins supermodel Jourdan Dunn at the star-studded Mulberry show in London
Fit for a king! Ballet legend Mikhail Baryshnikov and his wife show off their lavish home, 20 years after they built the sprawling property
Tiger Woods enjoys dinner date with girlfriend Erica Herman in Malibu amid claims they 'had an affair while he was still dating ex Kristin Smith'
Team USA favorite Mikaela Shiffrin admits it was nerves that made her VOMIT moments before her Olympic slalom as she misses out on a second Gold
The couple that carpools together...! Ivanka brightens up a dreary D.C. day in bold yellow as she and Jared ride to work side by side in an SUV
How Princess Diana's 'immoral and exploitative' former butler Paul Burrell has angered royal fans with his VERY revealing stories 
Good jeans! Anne Hathaway cuts a casual figure in denim bottoms  for breakfast outing with husband Adam Shulman and son Jonathan in LA
Does this mean she's done with real fur? Kim Kardashian chooses to wear FAKE fur coat on cover of ODDA after Pamela Anderson begs her to change
Nash-thrill! Hayden Panettiere flaunts her curves in a black swimsuit as she prepares to go snorkeling during beach getaway to Barbados
Why does Prince Harry's bride-to-be Meghan Markle need to be so huggy wuggy when she steps out to meet public on royal engagements?
Don't Go Breaking My Face! Fuming Elton John left checking his teeth after fan throws Mardi Gras beads at him during Las Vegas concert
Black model Duckie Thot reveals she is forced to take her OWN makeup to shoots as stylists struggle to find the right shade for her 'really dark' skin
Topless Tongan Pita Taufatofua achieves his goal of not hitting a tree in cross country skiing... and he DOESN'T finish last  Kept his clothes on
'They punked us for four-and-a-half hours!' RHOC's Gretchen Rossi and Slade Smiley reveal they're victims of Sacha Baron Cohen's new movie
Indian jewelry tycoon Nirav Modi whose diamonds are worn by Kate Winslet and Naomi Watts is accused of $1.8billion bank fraud Owns luxury stores 
Sofia Richie, 19, flashes her stomach in crop top and jeans as she and Scott Disick, 34, run errands in Calabasas Dating for almost a year
On the fast-track! Meet the VERY glamorous women forging REAL roles for women in motorsport - from TV reporters to racing drivers 
'She wanted it to be easy': Amy Schumer picked the first wedding dress she tried on... four days before surprise nuptials to chef Chris Fischer
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux made their final public appearance together in July last year... seven months before they announced split
Victoria's Secret model Chanel Iman, 27, flaunts her long legs in sexy knee-high vinyl boots as she parties in West Hollywood Head-turning outfit
Jeffrey Tambor slams Amazon's investigation into sexual harassment allegations against him after being fired from the 'toxic atmosphere' of Transparent
Pregnant Jordin Sparks puts baby bump on display in white bikini during babymoon in Mexico with husband Dana Isaiah Expecting first tot 
Penelope Cruz says Donatella Versace gave her blessing for her portrayal in American Crime Story... after designer slams 'untruthful' show
Kim Kardashian auctions off 200 items from her closet for charity including designer baby shoes, Kanye tour shirts and bikini bottoms
Kim Richards looks healthy and happy as she cuddles her grandson... after completing community service for 2015 drunken rampage
'My breasts aren't as pointy as the first Lara!' Alicia Vikander reveals the pressure of taking over Tomb Raider role as she details epic four month training regime
Susan Sarandon reveals her activism left her shunned by peers... but has 'no regrets' over her views on Hillary Clinton and Weinstein scandal
'Her assets and Friends fortune are protected': Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux 'signed iron-clad prenup'... as pair announce split
Top 20 most-filmed movie and TV locations in world revealed: From NYC's Central Park to London's South Bank, these are places you're most likely to see a star
Rapper Cardi B covers up in a loose-fitting pink sequin top as she attends Romeo Santos concert in New York City amid pregnancy rumors
Now that's an hourglass figure! German star Sophia Vegas flaunts 'world's tiniest waist' in black mesh bodice after having ribs removed
Jennifer Aniston is 'selling Bel-Air home where she married Justin Theroux' after shock split Recent shot at house suggests she's moving 
Gabrielle Union shows off her bra and hubby Dwyane Wade at premiere of his film Shot In The Dark premiere in Los Angeles He's film star this time
Teaching him the finer things! Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt spend quality time with baby Gunner as they take him on Beverly Hills shopping trip
'It's VERY exciting!' Nicole Kidman praises her adopted daughter Isabella Cruise's new fashion line... after facing backlash for failing to mention her
Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott wear MASKS as they post first picture together since becoming parents to baby Stormi Went on Snapchat
David Hasselhoff's daughter Hayley shows off her curves in skimpy black lingerie as she joins a protest against the lack of plus-sized models
EXCLUSIVE - 'Let the dads' shopping begin!':
Dustin Lance Black and husband Tom Daley are seen for the first time since announcing they are expecting a child 
Like father, like son! DJ Khaled and his little Asahd hit the runway in Los Angeles in matching track suits from his limited edition collection 
'They're both single!': Fans post memes rooting for Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston reunion after both Hollywood stars' second marriages collapse
Leggy model Lottie Moss shows off her show-stopping figure in thigh-high split gown as she attends Bulgari bash at the Berlin Film Festival
'Anaheim Hillbillie': Gwen Stefani, 48, looks youthful as she wears old tour sweatshirt while shopping in Santa Monica with two of her sons
'We are blessed!' Big Brother and Amazing Race stars Cody Nickson and Jessica Grafget engaged in romantic hilltop proposal
Traveling in style! Duchess Camilla  boards a vintage steam train in Yorkshire and even a BUS (while Prince Charles is busy sampling soap) 
The Bachelor Winter Games: German and Canadian contestants compete for heart of American Clare Crawley Contestants are looking for love
'#thosecurlstho': Mandy Moore shares cute throwback snap of her 16-year-old self with Julie Andrews on set of The Princess Diaries A star since her teens 
Having a ball! Rugby fan Prince Harry is in his element as he shares a joke with England star James Haskell during training day in London
A look back at Jennifer Aniston's famous exes including Brad Pitt and John Mayer as she splits from Justin Theroux after two years of marriage
Something old! Jennifer Lawrence recycles pretty pink dress from December awards ceremony for Amy Schumer's wedding
Late Paramount CEO Brad Grey's makeup mogul widow Cassandra now has a lesbian lover - less than ONE year after her husband's cancer death
I'll Be There For You! Courteney Cox looks in good spirits in West Hollywood after BFF Jennifer Aniston announces her split from Justin Theroux
Ashley Judd visits with Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh as the Times Up supporter advocates for victims of ethnic violence and sexual trauma
'Speak Love': Fuller House star Jodie Sweetin is casual chic in graphic tee and striped pants for celeb-stacked Rookie USA Fashion Show
Double trouble! Sports Illustrated Swimsuit beauty Danielle Herrington sizzles in TWO different skin-tight dresses as she steps out in NYC
'Oh no mama, you forgot your pants!' Blake Lively shares her daughter's reaction to her dress... after rejoicing about 61lb post-baby weight loss
What a fable-ous choice! Breaking Bad's Aaron Paul and wife Lauren Parsekian name new daughter Story Annabelle Paul Adorable to
Kim Kardashian puts on an eye-popping display in plunging tank top and skintight pants for lunch with Kourtney at Carousel restaurant in Glendale
'We were yelling out for him!' Ed Sheeran's pal details his sheer panic after the singer went missing at film set... as he prepares to kick off Australian tour
'Make or break vacation': Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux tried to salvage marriage during Mexico get-away with Jason Bateman and his wife
'Best big bro ever!': Kaia Gerber gushes over brother Presley's new tattoo of HER NAME on his arm They are quite close as siblings go
James Corden and wife Julia enjoy a low-key coffee date in LA... days on from joking about having 'the snip' after welcoming third child
EXCLUSIVE: 'I don't want to disappoint my family': Allison Janney admits she's put pressure on herself to win the Oscar for her role in I, Tonya
So she CAN do it? I, Tonya star Margot Robbie almost manages to perform a triple axel as she reprises her film role in hilarious social video
Pretty in pink! Christina Milian shows off her figure in tight tee and white leggings for breakfast outing in Los Angeles Always looks great
Nicole Scherzinger heads to dinner with handsome mystery man as she flaunts her washboard abs in white crop top and silky flared trousers
It's over! Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux SPLIT after just two years of marriage Decision 'was mutual and lovingly made at the end of last year'
Hot metal! Petra Nemcova dazzles in plunging gown at star-studded All Hands And Hearts Gala She always commands attention 
Omar Epps sued by older actress after he 'broke her arm' while improvising scene for Shooter Donzaleigh Abernathy filed the suit 
Family affair! Amanda Seyfried makes funny faces at new daughter while hanging out with her own mom in Los Angeles  Doting mom
Hilary Duff shows off her toned figure in sleeveless tee as she enjoys family lunch with son Luca and ex Mike Comrie Pair are still close
Perfect match! Hailey Clauson coordinates with boyfriend Jullien Herrera in black as she showcases flat belly in cropped sweatshirt All smiles
Kardashian kisses! Kim shares sweet video with daughter North on social media The reality star shared an adorable mother-daughter moment
'Over the moon with happiness!': Bachelor In Paradise stars Carly Waddell and Evan Bass welcome daughter Isabella Evelyn Announced on Insta
RHOC star Shannon Beador 'blindsided' as ex David goes public with new girlfriend in gushing Valentine's post before divorce is finalized
Modern Family's Ariel Winter dons Daisy Dukes as wildchild Lil in first trailer for The Last Movie Star with Hollywood legend Burt Reynolds, 82
'I'm bleeding pretty badly': Fat Amy actress Rebel Wilson is left in agony after coral 'cuts up her leg' during snorkeling trip in French Polynesia
Satisfied your sweet tooth? Reese Witherspoon looks in high spirits as she departs from Jessica Biel's restaurant Au Fudge
Blossoming love? Jennifer Garner buys a bouquet of flowers in Brentwood... after being spotted getting cozy with mystery man In an upbeat mood
Model Naomi Campbell, 47, and rapper Skepta, 35, 'head home together as they leave NME Awards afterparty early'... amid THOSE romance rumors
PICTURED: Amy Schumer marries chef Chris Fischer in front of pals J.Law and Jen Aniston after whirlwind romance (but insists she's 'not pregnant')
Leggy lady! Jennifer Lawrence flashes her slim pins in LBD and thigh-high boots for Red Sparrow screening in Washington DC On the red carpet
'I'm gonna have that in my purse': First-time nominee Allison Janney reveals she will take a silver peanut to The Oscars as her lucky charm
Real Housewife Kim Zolciak buys bulletproof backpacks for her school-aged children in wake of Florida massacre where 17 people were killed
Stars are blinding! Paris Hilton dazzles in cosmic short dress as she shows off her perfect pins in New York Stars Are Blind was her debut single in 2006
The couple that dresses together... Cindy Crawford and Rande Gerber rock matching leather jackets as they hold hands for date night 
Study break! Dakota Fanning packs on the PDA with boyfriend Henry Frye in between classes at NYU Plenty of kisses in the Big Apple
 'I couldn't be happier for them': Jennifer Lawrence sobbed at Amy Schumer's 'beautiful' but 'sudden' wedding... and has awardrobe mishap
'I am one lucky guy': Amy Schumer's ex Ben Hanisch shares sweet tribute to his new girlfriend a day after the star's surprise wedding Shared a snap
How romantic! Emily Ratajkowski carries bouquet of flowers while walking with mystery man in NYC The model bared her toned stoamch
That's a wrap! Dakota Johnson looks excited as she finishes filming Bad Times in Canada with Jon Hamm She was at the El Royale in Burnaby
'Beautiful piece': Jack Antonoff reacts to ex Lena Dunham's essay on her hysterectomy... which includes her recalling how their relationship crumbled
Roseanne Barr slams Hillary Clinton failure to appeal to the working class and says Trump's personality is 'great for comedy' while talking about show revival
Robin Thicke's pregnant girlfriend April Love Geary shares a naked bump shot... then deletes it The 23-year-old beauty is heavily pregnant 
Sealed with a kiss! Hayden Panettiere and Wladimir Klitschko enjoy romantic Barbados beach vacation with three-year-old daughter Kaya
Feeling Dirrty! Singer Christina Aguilera shares VERY sexy naked bathtub snaps on Instagram Sizzling mother-of-two made a big splash
'I am so angry': Frozen star Josh Gad reveals his grief after friend's son dies in Florida school shooting... as he slams Marco Rubio for taking NRA money
'I am here to do a job': Gay ice skater Adam Rippon keeps his eye on the prize and qualifies for the final after spat with Don Jr over snubbing Pence
Amazing trove of never-before-seen pictures of The Beatles, Rolling Stones, Bob Dylan and others are unearthed after 50 years in TV firm's vault
Sending a message! Rapper Iggy Azalea shows off her fab figure in a skin-tight T-shirt in Big Apple with 'Out Of Order' emblazoned over chest
'Communicate here and there': Tyga says he keeps in contact with ex-girlfriend and new mom Kylie Jenner Insisted there's been 'no bad blood' 
Kesha spends Valentine's Day without her boyfriend as she's pictured having dinner with Adam Chester in West Hollywood Out on the town
Amazon fires Jeffrey Tambor from Transparent following internal investigation as actor continues to deny sexual harassment accusations 
EXCLUSIVE: Cops are called to the LA home of comic book legend Stan Lee, 95, to probe 'battery' allegation and are seen quizzing his bodyguard
'You're a supergirl!': Doting mom Serena Williams dresses her five-month-old daughter Alexis in cute costume The tennis star shared a sweet video 
'But then he threw it all away': Hilarious movie trailer details the rise and fall of deputy prime minister Barnaby Joyce... and Johnny Depp will play him 
Suits you! Leonardo DiCaprio looks smart in a jacket and tie at Goed Geld Gala in Amsterdam Oscar-winning star  known for his jet-setting activism
In need of a pickup? Justin Bieber grabs an iced coffee in Los Angeles after a romantic Valentine's date with Selena Gomez He was out on his own
Nicole Kidman reveals her total amazement that Meryl Streep agreed to join Big Little Lies, as Laura Dern jokes that they 'worked very hard to beg her'
'Hussy!' Kris Jenner confesses to daughters Kim and Khloe on KUWTK that she met Robert Kardashian at 17... while she already had a boyfriend
Fashion's new queen bee? Lady Amelia Windsor, 22, stuns in  photo shoot for W Magazine, as she opens up about her 'random' move into modeling
Model who filed police report against Mohamed Hadid claiming he date raped her says he boasts about daughters Gigi and Bella to lure young women into bed
Moving on? Ben Affleck packs PDA with Lindsay Shookus on Los Angeles house hunting trip... days after ex Jennifer Garner was seen with mystery man
New couple alert! Lucy Hale receives sweet Valentine's Day smooch (and rose) from Life Sentence co-star Riley Smith on date night in LA
Pregnant Food Network star Ayesha Curry admits she has Hyperemesis just like Duchess Kate but is 'not feeling super royal though'
Now that'd be a tune! Rumors Keith Urban is set to debut new music with ex-Bardot member Sophie Monk... but is all as it seems? Sexy blonde singer
From disco eyes to grunge-y lips: Femail rounds up throwback beauty trends from the '70s, '80s, '90s and more that were spotted on the NYFW runways
Downton Abbey's Laura Carmichael cuts ladylike figure in pleated dress with a modern twist as she attends glitzy London awards night
Former sportscaster Warner Wolf, 80, sues Don Imus claiming the shock jock fired him from 'Imus in the Morning' radio show because of his age
Natalie Portman and Jennifer Jason Leigh didn't know their Annihilation characters had been 'whitewashed' and call for more women of color in films
The danger of Lena Dunham promoting hysterectomies for endometriosis: Gynecologist warns the surgery is a risky option under 35
'So excited!' Scorpion's Katharine McPhee dotes on dogs on set... after scoring first Broadway role in Waitress Headed to NYC stage
Meet Sienna Princess: Ciara shares first photos of baby girl with Russell Wilson through social media The 32-year-old singer went online
Lawyer representing Jennifer Hudson and David Otunga's son 'demands judge bans duo from asking child's therapist to testify' as custody case continues
Don't read this Justin! Selena Gomez reveals she had a huge crush on the 'hot' man inside Barney the dinosaur costume when she was eight
Lady Bird: Nice try, but a little teen angst goes a long way, writes BRIAN VINER A film about a teenage girl growing up in Sacramento, California
Single in the city! Olivia Munn enjoys a solo stroll on Valentine's Day after her ex Aaron Rodgers moves on with Danica Patrick Donned denim
Former 'Cosby Show' star Keshia Knight Pulliam, 38, owes $102,000 in state taxes in Georgia dating back to 2011, state court documents
EXCLUSIVE: Donald Trump Jr treats Kai, 10, to daddy-daughter dinner while Vanessa takes boys for sushi as couple ditch their Valentine's date night
'Being sexy does NOT mean that you're asking for it': Aly Raisman defends her 'empowering' nude Sports Illustrated Swimsuit shoot
Smitten Anna Faris enjoys cuddles on first romantic Valentine's Day with her new boyfriend Michael Barrett  Day at Venice Beach
Hottest fall 2018 trends! As New York Fashion Week wraps up, FEMAIL highlights the TOP 15 styles you need to know about for next season
'They make me laugh, they're cool and they're fabulous': Helen Mirren says she enjoyed 'Aussie humor' after shooting her new flick Winchester Down Under
Silver siren! Model Robyn Lawley puts her cleavage on display in a metallic bra and dress as she attends Sports Illustrated Swimsuit bash in NYC
'May the hearts of those mourning be lifted up': Married Team USA figure skaters dedicate Olympic performance to victims of Florida high school mass shooting
'It's not the flu': Wendy Williams gives fans health update after canceling the week's remaining shows adding she feels 'awful' She called in sick
Pink Floyd guitarist David Gilmour leaves adopted son out of his will while his daughters inherit his $340,000 estate  He died last summer 
Wax on, wax off... wax on again! Ralph Macchio returns for The Karate Kid's sequel series Cobra Kai YouTube Red is rebooting cult favorite
Meghan's day off! Miss Markle's doppelgänger Parisa Fitz-Henley takes a pause from filming on the set of the movie based on her romance with Harry 
Survivor winner Jenna Morasca, 37, arrested for DUI after she was found unconscious in SUV and 'bit a police officer' after apparent drug overdose
'To my one and only!': Tom Hanks' wife Rita Wilson shares sweet photo as they prepare to celebrate their 30 YEAR wedding anniversary Going as strong as ever
Little brother to adopted NFL star Michael Oher, made famous by 'The Blind Side', now works for Arkansas' college football team
Only three months left to go! Eva Longoria, 42, shows off large baby bump while exiting a Beverly Hills hair salon with wet locks Expecting her first tot
'He married sexuality and glamour': The Assassination Of Gianni Versace actor Edgar Ramirez talks the power of the late Italian designer
The Shape of Water: British star Sally Hawkins should win an Oscar for her luminous performance as a mute woman who falls for a very fishy fella 
Newly engaged Gwyneth Paltrow and Brad Falchuk share a romantic kiss (and dinner for five) on Valentine's Day Pair looked so in love
Kringe! Drunk Kris Jenner attempts to sing Spice Girls during hilarious karaoke session... and twerks up a storm to Baby Got Back at family party
Hot stuff in the city! Single La La Anthony looks like a Blade Runner extra in NYC... after estranged husband Carmelo calls her 'mine forever'
Oh so chic! Cindy Crawford, 51, wears all-black ensemble while on a shopping spree in New York City The 51-year-old model looked stunning .
Lakers rookie Lonzo Ball releases rap album 'Born 2 Ball' with one track named for dad LaVar and another promoting the family's apparel line
Oh, Mamma Mia! Lily James is a vision in sapphire ruffled gown as she joins beau Matt Smith at star-studded pre-BAFTA dinner in London
Tilda Swinton, 57, shows off her trademark androgynous style in quirky trouser suit and heels as she promotes Isle of Dogs at Berlin film festival
Downcast Hope Hicks dresses down in a $70 safari jacket and all-black outfit as she is seen for the first time since she broke up with Rob Porter
Prince Frederik and Crown Princess Mary take their children to visit the sea of flowers laid in tribute to Denmark's Prince Henrik
Andrea Corr, 43, sizzles in the sun as she parades her age-defying figure in tiny bikini on sun-drenched Barbados beach break Lead singer of The Corrs
A real screen siren! Prince Harry's ex-girlfriend Cressida Bonas looks elegant in emerald as she attends a pre-BAFTA dinner in London 
David Spade admitted he 'was already drunk' before smoking marijuana with rapper French Montana at Ellen DeGeneres 60th birthday bash
EXCLUSIVE: 'I wasn't going to wait 10 more years!' Margot Robbie insists she wouldn't have been offered I, Tonya  if she hadn't produced it herself
'My heart!' Jenna Bush Hager shares a sweet photo of mother Laura Bush cuddling with granddaughters Mila and Poppy as they pose in matching red outfits
Catch Her If You Can! Leonardo DiCaprio's model ex Toni Garrn goes braless in sexy cutaway gown at Berlin's film festival for Isle of Dogs premiere
Love struck Courtney Stodden, 23, flashes major sideboob in a slinky red gown as she puckers up to new man Chris Sheng, 37, on Valentine's Day
It's GYM Kardashian! Hilarious meme featuring Kim with VERY muscular arms goes viral Kanye's wife looks totally ripped
   
DON'T MISS
Elle Fanning looks stunning in ribbon embelished gown as she joins Dame Helen Mirren at the 68th Berlin Film Festival premiere of Isle Of Dogs
From straight As to XXX: Student who put herself through Duke by becoming a porn star is now off to law school with a Lifetime movie to boot
Already at war? Bethenny Frankel is called 'very annoying' by TV co-star Fredrik Eklund as she claims he 'overspends' They didn't hold back
Screenwriter Aaron Sorkin's 17-year-old daughter blasts How I Met Your Mother for 'romanticizing assault'  Says it 'normalizes' abusive sexual behavior
Making plans? Britney Spears would 'love to have a baby girl' with boyfriend Sam Asghari after dating for more than a year She's 36, he's 23 
Sylvester Stallone shops for jewelry in Beverly Hills for his wife of 20 years Jennifer Flavin during last minute spree on Valentine's Day
Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom share a VERY flirty exchange on Instagram after she catches a bouquet at wedding... amid claims they're 'back on'
Stormy Daniels kept a Monica Lewinsky-style dress from alleged hotel tryst with Trump, she claims - and plans to test it for DNA Could produce evidence
Heating up the stage! New Rules singer Dua Lipa looks lovely in red off-the-shoulder top as she performs on Jimmy Kimmel Live She wowed fans
'I wasn't kind. I had an attitude. I was a f****** asshole': Remorseful Chris Rock on cheating on his wife and his porn addiction Opened up about divorce
Selena Gomez tenderly strokes Justin Bieber's face before he leans in for a passionate kiss during romantic Valentine's date at hotel in LA
Meghan Markle's former makeup artist reveals star's ONE favorite beauty rule (because of her 'pet peeve' over having her freckles covered up)
Barstool radio host Patrick Connor is fired after calling 17-year-old Olympic gold medal-winning snowboarder Chloe Kim a 'little hot piece of a**'
David and Victoria Beckham have a BANNED open wood fire in their London home... at risk of a whopping $1,300 fine from local authority
'Feel sexy with my 8 month preggo bump': April Love Geary puts on jaw-dropping display in lingerie for Valentine's Day Robin Thicke's girlfriend
'I'm not going to be nude': Sarah Jessica Parker recalls sobbing when once pressured to take her clothes off for a film role Reduced to tears 
'It's not in my DNA,' says Oprah nixing presidential bid in first interview AFTER Golden Globes speech officially snuffing out White House chatter
Suited up! Bella Hadid steps out in gray plaid blazer and pant set with sneakers for outing in NYC Took a break from the catwalk after NYFW
'Prayers won't do this. Congress, please do your job': Kim Kardashian leads celebs demanding action after yet another gun massacre
Winter Olympics commentator Bode Miller is forced to apologise over 'sexist' remarks after blaming  skier's performance on her recent MARRIAGE 
'What the f***?' Mick Jagger's son Lucas, 18, confused as Kanye leaves fans baffled with 54 photos of famous couples during NINE HOUR Instagram spree
Be mine! Mariah Carey posts sultry Valentine's Day photo in a candy bra alongside shirtless boyfriend Bryan Tanaka Took some sexy snaps in hot tub
'To my gorgeous girl, you make me happier, stronger, better!': Jennifer Lopez, 48, kisses Alex Rodriguez, 42, on Valentine's Day after his gushy note
Sheer daring! Iggy Azalea flashes her pink lace bra in a completely see-through top as she steps out in New York City Head-turning outfit
'More like me': Julianne Hough debuts her new red hair while in Los Angeles... after revealing she has wanted to dye her hair for the past six years
Model Bianca Balti has a wardrobe malfunction as she goes braless under sheer dress with VERY low neckline at Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue bash
American ski slope queen Mikaela Shiffrin, 22, overcomes nerves to win Olympic giant slalom gold in Pyeongchang  Back-to-back champion
Mommy and me! Fergie enjoys festive Valentine's Day dinner with four-year-old son Axl in LA Pair looked cute going out to eat
'She's sharp': Finally Big Brother's Omarosa has something positive to say about the White House as she reveals what it was like working for 'impeccable' Melania
Actress urges female stars to ditch plunging necklines at Berlin Film Festival in light of the #TimesUp campaign - and brands red carpet a 'throwback to the 1950s'
Back to the grind! Newly-engaged Idris Elba, 45, shoots scenes on set of crime thriller Luther for the first time since proposing to Sabrina Dhowre, 29
'My maniac': Adam Levine shows off the Valentine's chocolate he bought his wife... as Behati Prinsloo flaunts her very pregnant belly She's expecting
Kate Upton poses TOPLESS as she shares a slew of sizzling bikini snaps from 'empowering' Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue
PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Twin Peaks star Lara Flynn Boyle, 47, appears to be sipping whisky from the bottle in the driver's seat of her car in LA
Flying solo! Prince Harry steps out without Meghan to play field hockey and serve lunch to young athletes at a sports camp for kids in London
Real Housewives Of Atlanta star Claudia Jordan, 44, flaunts her toned figure in a bright palm-print bikini as she soaks up the sun in Miami
Black to the grind: Rapper Rita Ora is a million miles from her sun-drenched getaway as she gets straight back to the gym in London
Bombshell in black! Tara Reid cuts a chic figure in maxi dress with motorcycle jacket for Valentine's Day dinner in at Madeo in West Hollywood
Heiress Tamara Ecclestone shows off incredibly slimline figure in skimpy coral bikini as she carries daughter Sophia on beach in Dubai
Stop and smell the Rose(s): Amber flaunts her toned stomach in a pink satin crop top as she celebrates first Valentine's Day with 21 Savage
Beach baby! Former daytime soap star Susan Lucci, 71, shows off incredible figure in strapless red swimsuit in Barbados She looks amazing
'Topless' Tongan skier reveals he has two goals for Olympics as he prepares to race - not to hit a tree and to finish before the lights are turned off 
Voluptuous swimwear model Tabria Majors showcases her curves in plunging thong bodysuit as she sends temperatures soaring at Sports Illustrated bash
Princess Olympia of Greece slips into stylish knit dress and oversized trench coat as she sits front row at Michael Kors show at NYFW
