Politics
Kelly offers account of Porter exit that some White House aides consider untrue
White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly arrives before President Trump speaks at a meeting with law enforcement officials at the White House on Feb. 6. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)
By Philip Rucker and Josh Dawsey By Philip Rucker and Josh Dawsey Email the author February 9 Email the author Follow @PhilipRucker Follow @jdawsey1
White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly on Friday morning instructed senior staff to communicate a version of events about the departure of staff secretary Rob Porter that contradicts the Trump administration’s previous accounts, according to two senior officials.
During a staff meeting, Kelly told those in attendance to say he took action to remove Porter within 40 minutes of learning that abuse allegations from two ex-wives were credible, according to the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because discussions in such meetings are supposed to be confidential.
“He told the staff he took immediate and direct action,” one of the officials said, adding that people after the meeting expressed disbelief with one another and felt his latest account was not true.
That version of events contradicts both the public record and accounts from numerous other White House officials in recent days as the Porter drama unfolded. Kelly — who first learned of the domestic violence allegations against Porter months ago — issued a glowing statement of support for Porter’s personal character after the allegations first surfaced publicly Tuesday and privately urged him to remain on the job until the next day when his resignation was announced.
At Friday’s meeting, Kelly also told subordinates to convey to other White House aides that he cares about domestic violence, according to the officials.
Senior White House officials said chief of staff John Kelly told them to give information about staff secretary Rob Porter's ousting that contradicts other reports. The Fix's Aaron Blake explains how this leak could indicate the end is near for Kelly. (Joyce Koh/The Washington Post)
White House spokesmen declined to comment on Kelly’s message at the staff meeting.
The Porter crisis has damaged Kelly’s credibility not only publicly but also inside the White House, where officials said he was losing the support of some West Wing staffers because of his management of the situation and apparent lack of transparency.
After summoning reporters into the Oval Office on Friday, President Trump addressed Porter’s departure, saying it is a “tough time” for Porter, and “we wish him well.”
“He also, as you probably know, says he’s innocent, and I think you have to remember that,” Trump said, adding that Porter did “very well” in the White House.
The instructions by Kelly early Friday mark the latest twist in the White House’s shifting accounts of the Porter episode, which consumed the West Wing for the fourth straight day.
On Tuesday night, after the abuse allegations against Porter were made public by the Daily Mail, Kelly said in a statement: “Rob Porter is a man of true integrity and honor, and I can’t say enough good things about him. He is a friend, a confidante and a trusted professional. I am proud to serve alongside him.”
On Wednesday morning, after photographs were posted on Twitter overnight by an Intercept reporter showing one of Porter’s ex-wives with a black eye, Kelly privately stood by Porter and urged him to stay in the job, White House officials said at the time.
White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly and staff secretary Rob Porter follow President Trump as he walks to board Marine One on Nov. 29. (Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post)
Porter issued a statement midday Wednesday denying the allegations but announcing his departure. That afternoon, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Porter still had the White House’s support and that the decision to resign was his own. She also said his departure from the White House was not imminent.
“I can tell you that Rob has been effective in his role as staff secretary, and the president and chief of staff have had full confidence and trust in his abilities and his performance,” she told reporters then.
Later Wednesday night, Kelly issued a new statement condemning domestic violence and saying he was “shocked by the new allegations” against Porter. He also said he stood by his “previous comments of the Rob Porter that I have come to know since becoming Chief of Staff, and believe every individual deserves the right to defend their reputation.”
By Thursday afternoon, White House spokesman Raj Shah said Porter had been “terminated” Wednesday and had cleaned out his desk.
Most Read Politics
