If you're new here, you may want to subscribe to my free Email alerts . Thanks for visiting!
DURING OBAMA REGIME
by Sharon Rondeau
(Feb. 8, 2018) — On Wednesday, LCDR Walter Francis Fitzpatrick, III (Ret) delivered documentation of FBI corruption under then-Director Robert S. Mueller, III to the district office of his congressman, Rep. Chuck Fleischmann , in Athens, TN after visiting the veterans’ center across the street on business.
In recounting the events which then unfolded, Fitzpatrick told The Post & Email on Thursday that Fleishmann’s staffer, Maxine Gernert, ultimately rejected the documentation and went to great lengths to find a witness in front of whom she could return it to him.
The documents Fitzpatrick provided in a packet which Gernert requested after Fitzpatrick met earlier in the day with Gernert and her intern, Meera Patel, included an April 26, 2010 FBI affidavit used to obtain an arrest warrant for Darren Wesley Huff for allegedly participating in a plot to “ take over ” the Monroe County courthouse in Madisonville, TN on  April 20  of that year.
Van Balen Arrest Warrant Huff from WBIR
The event was reported widely in the mainstream press .  Some articles used as source material for secondary sources and blogs have since been removed from the web .  The Post & Email’s numerous reports about or invoking “The Madisonville Hoax” remain active.
Mueller was director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation from September 2001 to early September 2013, when James B. Comey, an Obama nominee, replaced him.
On June 11, 2010, the Associated Press reported of the events in Madisonville on April 20, 2010, citing Van Balen’s affidavit:
Later that day, FBI agents and other officers saw Huff and more than a dozen others carrying weapons outside the courthouse, ready to take over the courthouse if necessary, Van Balen said.
However, neither the FBI nor any other law enforcement entity made an arrest that day nor confronted anyone “carrying weapons” anywhere in the vicinity of the Monroe County courthouse.  Since that time, no one other than Huff has been named as having violated the law.
After arriving in Madisonville that morning, Huff and friend Bill Looman went to Donna’s Old Time Cafe to have breakfast and spent the morning and early afternoon there, with Fitzpatrick joining them after his arraignment hearing.
“In that affidavit, Naval Academy graduate Walter Fitzpatrick is named as someone working with Huff; Fitzpatrick’s name is mentioned in the FBI affidavit as being criminally involved with Huff.  That statement is false,” Fitzpatrick said.  “When you take that written statement that he swore out and was presented to a federal judge, they were doing the same thing that they did in 2017 for the application to the FISA court to go after the Trump campaign.  It is exactly the same tactic.”
Both Huff and Fitzpatrick were labeled “ Sovereign Citizens ” by Tennessee state and local law enforcement entities and are pictured in a training program developed in conjunction with a division of the U.S. Justice Department.  Both men have rejected that characterization.
The Wall Street Journal and other mainstream sources have reported that early in the Obama regime, the FBI, Department of Defense and Department of Homeland Security targeted military veterans with an endeavor dubbed “ Operation Vigilant Eagle .”  In May 2013, The Rutherford Institute wrote that “military veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan are also being characterized as extremists and potential domestic terrorist threats because they may be ‘disgruntled, disillusioned or suffering from the psychological effects of war.’ As a result, these servicemen and women—many of whom are decorated—are finding themselves under surveillance, threatened with incarceration or involuntary commitment, or arrested, all for daring to voice their concerns about the alarming state of our union and the erosion of our freedoms.”
In text messages released over the last several weeks, FBI staff attorney Lisa Page and FBI Director of Counterintelligence Peter Strzok, both of whom served on Mueller’s “Russia” investigations, are seen expressing distaste for Trump and dismay when it appeared he would be elected over rival Hillary Clinton on November 8, 2016.  Other messages show that the two appeared to know that Clinton would not be criminally prosecuted in connection with her email server and mishandling of classified information.  Yet another message released on Tuesday morning shows Page telling Strzok that “potus wants to know everything we’re doing” in a reference to Barack Obama and an unidentified investigation.
Republicans on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee chaired by Sen. Ron Johnson (WI) have issued an interim report into the FBI’s 2016 probe of Clinton’s private email server which states (p. 3):
2018-02-07 Interim Report_The Clinton Email Scandal and the FBI’s Investigation of It-1
A parallel investigation into alleged bias on the part of FBI agents involved in the Clinton email probe is being completed by the Justice Department’s inspector general.
Unlike President Trump , Fitzpatrick believes that the FBI “rank and file are as dirty as senior management.”  Coincidentally, an article published on Thursday by Breitbart quotes a former FBI agent as having said that the exams given to FBI applicants “are written to recruit a certain type of person.”
“We have as much dirt on Robert Mueller and his criminal conduct in 2010 that we’re finding out about now with the current ‘luminaries’ of the FBI — McCabe, Comey — before them came Bob Mueller,” Fitzpatrick said.  “What this means is that Darren Huff’s conviction can be completely overturned because it was based on a false, sworn affidavit which produced a warrant.  It was fruit of the poisonous tree.”
In a May 22, 2012 interview between FBI Agent Scott Johnson and FBI official Mollie Halpern posted at the FBI’s website , Johnson told Halpern of Huff that “He thought he was going to ride in from out of town with the guns on his hips and right all the injustices.”
Contrary to some reports, Huff was not carrying firearms on his person when he arrived in Madisonville.
It is well-documented that the alleged “courthouse takeover” emanated from Obama supporters who are members of an online group, The Fogbow, and admitted to calling in the false threats to the mayor of Madisonville.
Huff left his guns locked in his truck during his entire time in Madisonville and never approached the courthouse.  He was not arrested until April 30 , ten days after making the trip from Georgia.
As discussed in the May 22, 2012 FBI broadcast, Huff was eventually tried and convicted on a charge of transporting firearms across state lines with the intent to cause a civil disturbance, after which he spent three and one-half years in federal prison.
Before arriving at the verdict, the jury acquitted Huff on a second charge and was “hung” on the other.  The judge, U.S. District Court Judge Thomas Varlan, then ordered them to “ try again .”
No media outlet which reported on the events of April 20, 2010 mentioned the systemic corruption of Tennessee county grand juries which prompted Fitzpatrick’s attempt at a citizen’s arrest of the Monroe County grand jury foreman on April 1, 2010 but instead instigated his own arrest and a series of incarcerations .
Fitzpatrick’s accounts of judicial and grand jury corruption have been corroborated by scores of Tennessee inmates and their relatives in letters, emails and phone calls to The Post & Email over the last four years.
On Thursday Fitzpatrick said that he first spoke with an intern, Meera Patel, to whom he “began to explain that he had information which gave up Robert Mueller as a criminal.”
Fitzpatrick said he summarized to Patel, as a result of recent revelations, that in 2016, a “false FBI statement was submitted” to the FISA court by an unidentified FBI agent along with an application for a surveillance warrant which ultimately was granted against Trump informal adviser Carter Page as stated in a memo released last week by the House Permanent Subcommittee on Intelligence (HPSCI).
According to the memo, the warrant application and three subsequent applications were signed by either then-FBI Director James Comey, FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, current FBI General Counsel Dana Boente, current Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, or then-Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates.
In May 2013, The Post & Email asked the question , “Has the FBI become a political tool?” after it was made public that then-U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder ordered the collection of communications made by then-Fox News Washington correspondent James Rosen, his parents, and the phone records of more than 20 journalists and their editors at the Associated Press.
A number of congressmen and political pundits have called for a second Special Counsel to investigate “the investigators” as well as the premise upon which the “Russia investigation” and Mueller’s role were based.  In the meantime, the mainstream media has largely ignored or visibly pushed back against the daily revelations indicative of political influence and corruption within “the premier law enforcement agency in the United States.”
Editor’s Note:  Please look for a continuation of this series in the near future.
 
Fitzpatrick:  Mueller Using “Same Tactic” Against Trump as Used Against Military Veterans added on
Thursday, February 8, 2018
Sharon Rondeau
Sharon Rondeau has operated The Post & Email since April 2010, focusing on the Obama birth certificate investigation and other government corruption news .  She has reported prolifically on constitutional violations within Tennessee’s prison and judicial systems.
