Continue reading the main story
But while questions continue to swirl about whether Mr. Kelly will survive the scandal — he offered to resign on Friday — in Ms. Hicks’ case the West Wing trotted out a host of senior officials to defend her. On Friday the lineup included Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter and senior adviser, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary.
“I have been impressed with Hope since I started working with her on the campaign,” Mr. Mnuchin said in a statement that was volunteered by an aide. “She is exceptionally talented in leading communications for the administration. I view her as an invaluable asset to the president and us all.”
Ms. Trump, who hired Ms. Hicks several years ago to work for her company before Ms. Hicks was tapped to serve on the Trump campaign in 2015, said Ms. Hicks was a “team player” who’d earned the president’s confidence.
Video
Who is Hope Hicks?
Members of the Trump administration haven’t always followed a traditional path. Hope Hicks fits right in, a communications director who hardly communicates publicly.
By CHRIS CIRILLO on Publish Date December 8, 2017. Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times. Watch in Times Video »
embed
“Most importantly,” Ms. Trump said in an unsolicited interview, “the president has deep respect for her, cares about her greatly, and listens to her. That’s not true of everyone. She’s earned that.”
Ms. Hicks, a 29-year-old former model, brought an aggressive, corporate-world training to the world of politics. With a background in defending the client against all threats — and, if necessary, all odds — she earned Mr. Trump’s trust during the campaign.
The bond grew as Mr. Trump ascended to the White House and was suddenly surrounded by a sea of unfamiliar faces. Ms. Hicks has been a constant at his side on trips and photo opportunities, and keeps as close an eye as possible on Mr. Trump’s interviews with journalists.
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
