Save
Gov. Jim Justice appointed a vocal advocate of the anti-vaccine movement to the House of Delegates on Friday.
Dr. Chanda Adkins is a substitute teacher, pharmacist and director of West Virginians for Health Freedom, an advocacy organization that fights vaccine requirements.
She will replace Lynne Arvon, R-Raleigh, who was appointed to the state Senate.
On Friday, Adkins declined to comment on whether she supports religious exemptions to vaccine requirements in schools.
“It’s really interesting that you’re asking me all these questions about vaccines when there’s just so many things here today that are so good and happening like my basketball tournament today, which was so amazing,” she said, referring to a team she coaches. “I would much rather love to talk about the accomplishments that the middle school girls have done today, because today they played the best basketball game I’ve ever seen them play.”
In 2017, Adkins testified before a Senate committee about Senate Bill 537 that would have allowed an exemption for children to attend public school without certain vaccinations for religious reasons.
The bill would also have allowed employees to opt out of vaccinations required by employers for religious reasons.
“Our group is comprised of all kinds of different people who, yes, we say, we know the [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention] is telling us to do this, and do this, and do this, and do this, but now we see this flux of people that are saying, ‘My child was fine, and then something changed after a vaccine,’ ” she said in a 2017 interview with Tom Roten on News Radio 800 WVHU regarding the bill .
That legislation passed out of the Senate Education Committee but died in the Health and Human Resources Committee.
In the same radio interview, Adkins denied WVHF is an anti-vaccine organization. She said they support choice and education regarding vaccinations.
“We’re not saying don’t vaccinate,” she said. “The opposition wants to make it sound like we’re saying stop vaccinating, these diseases are coming back, and that’s not true.”
Adkins’ organization hosted “Health Freedom Day” last month at the Capitol, decrying certain vaccine requirements.
In response, Dr. Michael Brumage, then-executive director of the Kanawha-Charleston Health Department, sent a scathing letter to the The Charleston Gazette editorial page , saying Health Freedom Day is a misguided attempt to legitimize a fringe attack on health policy.
“Through a disinformation and misinformation campaign, groups seek to inflate the harm associated with vaccines by calling attention to adverse reactions, as well as additives and adjuncts to vaccines that have been proven safe in several extremely large studies,” he said.
“The idea of freedom to choose which vaccines to give your child and which to withhold or delay comes at the expense of the freedom of the most vulnerable children and adults who cannot be vaccinated. It is, in fact, not “freedom” at all but the conscious choice to shift the risk of disease to people who have no choice. It is time we correctly label the anti-vaccine movement for what it is: a misguided and uninformed attempt to undo the most important life-saving and life-sustaining treatment in public health today.”
In response to Brumage’s words, Adkins said she was disheartened, and that he shouldn’t try to discredit someone before meeting them.
Adkins is also running for election for the seat on the November ballot.
Reach Jake Zuckerman at jake.zuckerman@wvgazettemail.com , 304-348-4814 or follow @jake_zuckerman on Twitter.
