Poll: Majority say Mueller’s Russia probe is fair
By John Bowden - 02/09/18 12:00 PM EST
8,133
© UPI Photo
A majority of Americans say special counsel Robert Mueller
Robert Swan Mueller Sasse: US should applaud choice of Mueller to lead Russia probe MORE 's investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia is fair and should continue without interference, a Marist College poll reports.
The poll, released Friday, finds that just more than half of those surveyed, 53 percent, say that the special counsel probe is a "fair" investigation into Trump's campaign, while 28 percent say it is "unfair." This marks an increase from 48 percent who said the investigation was "fair" in the same poll last month.
ADVERTISEMENT
In addition, respondents said they are more likely to trust Mueller than Trump. Given an option between the two, 55 percent said they would believe Mueller over Trump, compared to 30 percent that said the reverse.
Most Americans still have a positive view of the FBI despite weeks of attacks from Trump and congressional Republicans over the bureau's handling of both the Russia investigation and the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton Trump touts report Warner attempted to talk to dossier author Poll: Nearly half of Iowans wouldn’t vote for Trump in 2020 Rubio on Warner contact with Russian lobbyist: It’s ‘had zero impact on our work’ MORE 's private email server, the poll finds.
Seventy-one percent of Americans said the bureau was just trying to do its job, compared to 23 percent who told the poll they believe the FBI is biased against the president.
Sixty-five percent of Americans have an overall positive view of the FBI, while 28 percent have an unfavorable view. Fifty-five percent of Republicans still have a positive view of the FBI, according to the poll, despite Trump's feud with the agency.
Marist College contacted 1,012 adults from Feb. 5 to 7. The poll has a margin of error of 3.7 percentage points.
