Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Pinterest
Trump's absence means black lawmakers will now celebrate new civil rights museum
Congressional black lawmakers are headed to the Mississippi Civil Rights Museum later this month now that President Trump has come and gone.
Post to Facebook
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
7
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Trump's absence means black lawmakers will now celebrate new civil rights museum
Deborah Barfield Berry , USA TODAY Published 12:07 p.m. ET Feb. 9, 2018 | Updated 2:37 p.m. ET Feb. 11, 2018
Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., will be a speaker later this month at a program celebrating the opening of the Mississippi Civil Rights Museum. Thompson and others boycotted an earlier opening of the museum because President Trump was a featured speaker.
(Photo: Deborah Barfield Berry, USA TODAY)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 7 COMMENTEMAILMORE
WASHINGTON — Congressional black lawmakers, some who boycotted an earlier grand opening of the civil rights museum in Mississippi, will attend a “counter" celebration later this month now that President Trump has come and gone.
“It could be called a counter opening," said Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss. “But what we’re trying to say is the civil rights museum should not be highlighted by people who have no history in the civil rights movement, so we’re trying to legitimize the museum by bringing participants and supporters of civil rights who have a long-standing history of civil rights and not people who are there for the day and gone.’’
Thompson and others, including civil rights legend Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., civil rights groups and local activists boycotted the grand opening Dec. 9 after learning Trump would attend.
Instead, Thompson and Lewis will speak at a two-day event at the museum hosted by Friends of Mississippi Civil Rights. The weekend event, which kicks off Feb. 23, includes an awards gala Friday and a day-long program Saturday featuring a town hall and symposiums.
Other speakers include Derrick Johnson, head of the National NAACP, and New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker. Rep. Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, has also been invited.
The state-of-the-art museum, which was years in the making, opened with much fanfare. The exhibits highlight the history of the civil rights movement in Mississippi, which was at the heart of efforts to register blacks to vote and dismantle Jim Crow.
Civil rights veterans say the museum is an important recognition of hard-fought efforts.
“Civil rights is a story that needs to be told and having someone that is the polar opposite of civil rights be the premiere focus of the opening of that museum - people just felt that it was an affront,'' Thompson said.
Republican Gov. Phil Bryant invited Trump to the grand opening of the museum and the Mississippi State History Museum saying the state should be proud the president was coming.
Mississippi should be proud that @POTUS has agreed to speak at the opening of the Museum of Mississippi History and the Mississippi Civil Rights Museum.
The world will be watching our Bicentennial celebration. Let us come together as one Mississippi. pic.twitter.com/QA8KKjP2yz
— Phil Bryant (@PhilBryantMS) December 6, 2017
Trump toured the museum and praised the work of civil rights veterans , including Martin Luther King and Medgar Evers, a Mississippi NAACP field secretary who was shot and killed in the driveway of his Jackson, Miss., home in June 1963.
“Here we memorialize the brave men and women who struggled to sacrifice, and sacrifice so much, so that others might live in freedom," Trump said.
President Donald Trump, left, listens as Mississippi Gov. Phil Bryant, right, shows him the Hinds County Jail on display at the newly-opened Mississippi Civil Rights Museum in Jackson, Miss. on Dec. 9, 2017.
 (Photo: Susan Walsh, AP)
The White House called it "unfortunate'' that lawmakers refused to attend the opening.
“We think it’s unfortunate that these members of Congress wouldn’t join the president in honoring the incredible sacrifice civil rights leaders made to right the injustices in our history,'' Sarah Sanders, a White House spokeswoman, said then.
Johnson, who boycotted, said the December event was “usurped by Trump’s attempt to create a photo op for him.’’
“There’s a difference between a grand opening and honoring veterans of the civil rights movement,’’ he said. “This is about honoring the veterans and acknowledging the presence of the civil rights museum ... It’s just to say thank you.''
Derrick Johnson, head of the national NAACP, (right) chats with a guest at a reception Thursday in Washington. Johnson will be a speaker later this month at the Mississippi Civil Rights Museum.
 (Photo: Deborah Barfield Berry, USA TODAY)
Thompson, Richmond and others, particularly black and Latino lawmakers, have clashed with Trump over policies they say aim to set back civil rights gains and roll back voting rights protections. They also complained Trump recently made derogatory remarks about African counties and Haiti.
Bryant, as well as former Mississippi governors, has been invited to attend the February program, said organizers. Bryant will be in Washington that weekend for the Republican Governors Association's winter meeting. 
Carlos Moore, co-chairman of the Friends of Mississippi Civil Rights, said he and others in Mississippi had planned to attend the December opening but decided not to when Lewis and Thompson opted out.
Some protested outside the event.
“To me Donald Trump is the total opposite of everything that Dr. (Martin Luther) King and Mr. Lewis stood for…,’’ said Moore. “I didn’t believe his comments would be from the heart. I thought it would be a dog-and-pony show.’’
Moore said he posted a notice on his Facebook page saying activists should host their own celebration and “don’t let Trump rain on our parade.”
Contributing: Geoffrey Pender, Clarion-Ledger, Jackson, Miss.
 
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 7 COMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2nW0PvT
