Disabato: Is it finally time to limit tackle football until age 12? It could be
John Smierciak/Daily Southtown
St. Laurence coach Harold Blackmon doesn’t believe high school football would suffer if kids weren’t allowed to tackle until age 12.
St. Laurence coach Harold Blackmon doesn’t believe high school football would suffer if kids weren’t allowed to tackle until age 12. (John Smierciak/Daily Southtown)
Privacy Policy
I wish I could say for certain that prohibiting children under age 12 from participating in tackle football is a ridiculous idea.
That such a wimpy suggestion is similar to forcing children to wear a helmet while riding a bicycle. Hmm.
That the benefits of playing youth football — teamwork, discipline, sportsmanship — far outweigh the potential dangers of a head injury.
But I can't.
That said, I do believe such a decision should be left up to parents, not the government. At least for now.
Rep. Carol Sente, (D-Vernon Hills), recently introduced a bill that would prohibit children under the age of 12 from playing tackle football.
The bill is named the Dave Duerson Act to Prevent CTE after the former Bears player who took his life in 2011 at age 50. Duerson was found to have chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or CTE, which is a degenerative brain disease that has been linked to repeated head trauma.
If this bill becomes a law, what would its effects have on high school football?
Would the quality of the sport suffer?
St. Laurence coach Harold Blackmon doesn't think so.
"I didn't start playing tackle football until I was 12," he said. "I think it makes it safer for kids. When we get kids at St. Laurence as freshmen, most of the time we have to change their fundamentals of tackling. They've been taught wrong.
"I don't believe waiting until the age of 12 would hurt the high school game."
And despite his late start playing tackle football, Blackmon went on to enjoy a superb career at Northwestern and played two seasons as a defensive back for the Seattle Seahawks.
Because of those experiences, Blackmon rarely allows physical contact at his practices.
"The only full contact we have is the first full contact day of the season," Blackmon said. "That's it. But we still teach the right way to tackle. Hit with the shoulder, never drop your head when your tackling, make sure your feet are in the right position, always see what you're seeing. We stress to our kids to not make the ESPN highlight hit."
There isn't a point that Blackmon made that I disagree with.
Consider this: Do 7-on-7 passing leagues, which don't involve tackling, make quarterbacks and receivers better or worse? It's not football by definition, but those leagues have been implemented to improve and develop the skills of quarterbacks, receivers and defensive backs.
St. Rita coach Todd Kuska, however, believes injuries at the high school level will rise if kids aren't allowed to tackle until age 12.
"Kids learn how to do things the right way through repetition," he said. "If they're learning to tackle for the first time in junior high, they're going to be prone to making mistakes like not tackling properly. My son is 12 and he's played tackle football the last three years. I know he's being taught the right way to tackle.
"I would never want to see a kid get a concussion. It's never a good thing. I do believe the high school game would suffer if this became a law."
Homewood-Flossmoor coach Craig Buzea suggested tackling at a young age has scared some kids, and families, away from the game.
"We're losing kids who play the game at too young of an age," Buzea said. "They have a bad experience, whether it's getting hit or injured, and they stop playing. Too much contact at a young age can take away the fun of the game.
"I truly believe the game is as safe as it's been in a long time. But I think you can still have a successful high school program with kids who don't play tackle football until the age of 12."
I can't say I disagree.
