Raisman says she was threatened, ignored over abuse claims
By Jake Tapper and Kim Berryman, CNN
Updated 10:40 PM ET, Fri February 9, 2018
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
JUST WATCHED
Raisman: Olympic coach may have known of Nassar's abuse in 2011 06:28
Washington (CNN)
When Olympic gold medalist Aly Raisman reported her abuse at the hands of Larry Nassar, she thought USA Gymnastics officials and the FBI would help.
Instead, she said she was discouraged from speaking out and even threatened.
In the summer of 2015, just after USA Gymnastics was first alerted to Nassar's abuse allegations, Raisman said she met with Fran Sepler, an investigator hired by the organization.
"I did let Fran know that I was very uncomfortable with (Nassar) and he did touch me inappropriately," Raisman said. " ... I felt like I was sticking up for Nassar too much. I did let Fran know that I was very uncomfortable with him."
Raisman then told an official at USA Gymnastics that Sepler needed to speak with more girls who had had similar experiences with Nassar.
Read More
Shortly after, Raisman said, "I got, in my opinion, what I perceived as a threat from Fran."
She said she was told she would jeopardize herself if she continued to discuss her abuse. According to a 2015 text message shared with CNN, Raisman was told, "I appreciate your interest and concern in this matter ... but please remember that there are risks in sharing information at this point. There is a process in place and staying clear of the process will protect you and others."
Sepler told CNN she categorically denies making any threat to Raisman, adding that Raisman's story lacks context: "I would never threaten a young person. ... I was very concerned. If anything I was trying to protect her."
Aly Raisman skeptical US Olympics investigation will be independent or comprehensive
"It felt like, from the very beginning, Fran Sepler was always on USA Gymnastics' side. Their biggest concern was always just to keep it quiet," Raisman said. "We kept reaching out, my mom and I. Obviously, that's not enough for us. We want to make sure this is being investigated and we were told that the FBI was handling it."
Sepler said Raisman's prior discussions about Nassar with USAG staff were not reported to her. "I am an independent fact finder. I have no skin in the game" she told CNN on Friday night.
At the time, "We didn't know then what we know now," Sepler said, reiterating that she would never tell a young person not to speak out.
Raisman also said leadership at the US Olympic Committee and USAG has ignored her in the weeks since her high-profile victim's statement at Nassar's sentencing. No offer of support, no offer of assistance -- just one email from a lawyer.
JUST WATCHED
