Will Phil Murphy plan to combat Trump's gutting of property tax breaks work?
Updated
February 10, 2018 at 11:37 AM
; Posted
February  9, 2018 at  6:22 PM
Gov. Phil Murphy holds a news conference Friday at Marlboro town hall.
Comment
bjohnson@njadvancemedia.com ,
NJ Advance Media for NJ.com
Gov. Phil Murphy  on Friday continued pushing a plan he says could help New Jerseyans make up at least some of the money they're set to lose under the federal tax law President Donald Trump  recently signed into law.
But the question remains: Will the IRS allow it?
Murphy appeared at a news conference at Marlboro town hall flanked by five mayors who promise to institute the plan, which would allow New Jersey taxpayers to pay property taxes to charitable funds set up by local governments to skirt the $10,000 cap on state and local taxes that people can deduct under the new federal law. 
"If we do this right -- and doing it right is important -- working- and middle-class families and seniors could retain most if not all of the deduction and tax benefit they currently enjoy," said Murphy, a Democrat who is less than a month into office.
Top Democrat fires first public shot at Phil Murphy
New Jerseyeans -- who pay the nation's highest property taxes -- have long been able to deduct all their state and local taxes.
But the new law passed by Republican-controlled Congress and signed by Trump, a Republican, caps state and local tax deductions at $10,000. That's nearly half of the $18,000 that the average New Jerseyan used to deduct.
The plan Murphy is touting -- initially proposed by U.S. Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-5th Dist.  --  would get around the federal law by allowing local governments in New Jersey to set up charitable "support funds" that residents can give money to in lieu of paying property taxes.
That money would go toward government services, and taxpayers can write it off as a charitable donation, skirting the cap because the new law does not change deductions for charity. 
Murphy has spent the last two days championing the plan. On Thursday, he called on the state Legislature  to pass a bill cementing it into law. 
"We think we're on stronger legal footing if we have a state law," Murphy explained Friday.
But Murphy said local governments can also begin setting up these funds now on their own. 
He was joined by mayors from Aberdeen, Belmar, Marlboro, Manasquan, and Ocean Township. Mayors from Fair Lawn, Paramus, and Park Ridge have also vowed to launch the proposal, Murphy's office said.
Murphy added that 33 other states have similar programs. 
But Murphy and some mayors cautioned that it's unclear whether the Internal Revenue Service will be O.K. with the plan.
"I can't guarantee you success," Murphy said.
Marlboro Mayor Jonathan Hornik, a Democrat, echoed that worry.
"Will this idea work? I don't know. I don't," Hornik said. "But how can we not try? Anybody who's unwilling to try doesn't belong in government."
The IRS notes on its website  that charitable deductions apply only to eligible charities. But the agency declined further comment Friday. 
Jared Walczak, a senior policy analyst at the conservative-leaning Tax Foundation, told the Associated Press that while the proposal is creative, it's unlikely the IRS will sign off.
"IRS and Treasury officials weren't born yesterday," Walczak said. "They will see right through these proposals, recognizing the contributions for what they are: payment of taxes."
State Sen. Joe Pennachio, R-Morris, criticized Murphy's plan Friday, calling it a "scheme" that "provides false hope rather than real solutions."
"We should focus on real solutions that actually lower the cost of government," Pennachio said.
Murphy admitted Friday that the proposal "will not solve New Jersey's long-festering property-tax crisis."
"That is not going to happen overnight," the governor added. "But ... while we work toward those long-term solutions, this is something we can do now."
NJ Advance Media staff writer Samantha Marcus and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
Brent Johnson may be reached at bjohnson@njadvancemedia.com . Follow him on Twitter @johnsb01 . Find NJ.com Politics on Facebook.
View Comments
