Obama touts Hillary Clinton as the most qualified candidate, asks voters ‘to reject cynicism, reject fear, to summon what’s best in us’ at DNC
Obama touts Hillary Clinton as the most qualified candidate
Wednesday, July 27, 2016, 7:33 PM
PHILADELPHIA — In passing the torch, he lit up the room.
President Obama delivered a hearty reminder Wednesday before the Democratic National Convention of all that he's done for the country in his eight years and promised voters that they were in "good hands" with Hillary Clinton.
In what's certain to be one of his — if not the — last primetime address of his presidency, Obama reviewed his most signature accomplishment inside the White House — passing health care reform, taking out Osama bin Laden and rescuing the U.S. economy from a depression — and outlined the case why Clinton would continue that arc of progress.
Hillary Clinton emerged on stage following Obama’s speech, embracing him with a long hug and waving at the DNC crowd.
(SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images)
"I'm ready to pass the baton and do my part as a private citizen. This year, in this election, I'm asking you to join me — to reject cynicism, reject fear, to summon what's best in us; to elect Hillary Clinton as the next President of the United States, and show the world we still believe in the promise of this great nation," Obama said, prompting huge applause.
Twelve years after he first burst onto the national political scene with an extraordinary keynote speech at the 2004 Democratic National Convention, Obama bookended his presidency in the same fashion — but on behalf of somebody else.
President Obama speaks on the third night at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.
(MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS)
"I ask you to do for Hillary Clinton what you did for me. I ask you to carry her the same way you carried me. Because you're who I was talking about twelve years ago, when I talked about hope — it's been you who've fueled my dogged faith in our future, even when the odds are great; even when the road is long," he said. "Hope in the face of difficulty; hope in the face of uncertainty; the audacity of hope."
In a surprise met with gasps and a deafening roar, Clinton emerged on stage following Obama’s speech, embracing her former boss with a long hug and waving at the captivated crowd with a big smile.
Highlights from the 2016 Democratic National Convention
Earlier, before he was done singing the praises of his rival-turned-friend, Obama, who himself was greeted as he took the stage with chants of “yes we can,” saved his strongest words for Donald Trump, whom he's taken on with increasing relish in recent weeks.
Mayor de Blasio blasts Donald Trump in DNC speech
"He's betting that if he scares enough people, he might score just enough votes to win this election," Obama said, casting the bombastic billionaire a wannabee tyrant.
"That is another bet that Donald Trump will lose. Because he's selling the American people short. We are not a fragile or frightful people. Our power doesn't come from some self-declared savior promising that he alone can restore order. We don't look to be ruled."
Obama got in a few wisecracks too, jokingly referring to the GOP nominee as "not really a plans guy" and "not really a facts guy, either," but he was markedly serious in his tone when casting the "big choice" voters face in the fall.
Obama,  as he took the stage, was greeted by the DNC crowd chanting "yes we can." 
(Todd Maisel/New York Daily News)
"This is not your typical election. It's not just a choice between parties or policies; the usual debates between left and right. This is a more fundamental choice — about who we are as a people, and whether we stay true to this great American experiment in self-government," he said.
Star Jones to Donald Trump at DNC: 'Boy, bye'
“Does anyone really believe that a guy who’s spent his 70 years on this Earth showing no regard for working people is suddenly going to be your champion? Your voice? If so, you should vote for him,” Obama quipped, before laying into Trump even harder.
“Anyone who threatens our values, whether fascists or communists or jihadists or homegrown demagogues, will always fail in the end. That’s America. Those bonds of affection; that common creed. We don’t fear the future; we shape it, embrace it, as one people, stronger together than we are on our own,” he said. “That’s what Hillary Clinton understands.”
Obama, who reportedly went through at least six drafts of the speech in the last week alone, was introduced by Sharon Belkofer, whose son Lt. Col Thomas Belkofer was killed by a suicide bomber in Afghanistan in 2010 and followed Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Clinton’s running mate, who also took aim at Trump.
10 Powerful American Political Women
“He never tells you how he’s going to do any of the things he says he’s going to do. He just says ‘believe me.’ So here’s the question,” Kaine said. “Do you really believe him?” he said as the crowd screamed, “No!”
Sign up for BREAKING NEWS Emails
