comments
The global fascination with Donald Trump 's hair started long before he ever set his sights on the presidency, but once he did, this only intensified the scrutiny. 
Despite the fact Trump has always insisted his hair is real, a recent video  of the 45th President of the United States boarding Air Force One has thrown this even more into question, as the wind seems to show a huge bald patch at the back of his head.
A recent video of Donald Trump boarding Air Force One has fuelled more speculation about his hair, as the wind seems to show a huge bald patch at the back of his head
Is Donald Trump's hair fake or is it real?
Many theories have been put forward as to what exactly is the deal with Donald Trump's hair, is it fake or is it real? Comb-over or hair piece? 
He is constantly asked about it in interviews —  Jimmy Fallon  messed with it on his show, countless articles and photo essays have been published about it, The Donald himself tweets about it.
But the commander in chief has always maintained that his hair is real, tweeting about it, 'My hair may not be perfect but it’s mine,' and even talking about it in a recent interview with Piers Morgan during which he told him: 'People find it hard to believe it's my hair, but it is. It's hanging in, barely, but it's hanging in.'
As everybody knows, but the haters & losers refuse to acknowledge, I do not wear a “wig.” My hair may not be perfect but it’s mine.
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 24, 2013
Donald Trump's scalp reduction surgery
As reported by Michael Wolff in his recent book, 'Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House', Trump's own daughter  Ivanka  would joke about her father's hair to her friends.
He wrote of the first daughter: 'She treated her father with a degree of detachment, even irony, going so far as to make fun of his comb-over to others. 
'She often described the mechanics behind it to friends: an absolutely clean pate — a contained island after scalp-reduction ­surgery — surrounded by a furry circle of hair around the sides and front, from which all ends are drawn up to meet in the center and then swept back and secured by a stiffening spray.'
Also in Fire and Fury, he said Ivanka revealed to her friends Trump's hair was dyed.
'The color, she would point out to comical effect,' he revealed, 'was from a product called Just for Men — the longer it was left on, the darker it got. Impatience resulted in Trump’s orange-blond hair color.'
Reports of this scalp reduction surgery first came to light when divorce documents from wife Ivana in the 90s were exposed. Trump's first wife claimed he once raped her at their home because he was in pain from scalp reduction surgery.
In the divorce deposition, under oath, Ivana said that Donald raped her in a fit of rage because of the pain he was suffering from his scalp reduction surgery, also known as alopecia reduction, which occurs when the patient's bald spot is cut out and the remaining skin is pulled and sewn back together.
Harry Hurt wrote in the 'Lost Tycoon: The Many Lives of Donald J. Trump' that the recovery was painful and Donald suffered 'nagging headaches caused by the shrinking of the scalp, and the pain of the initial incision'. 
Donald Trump's hair blowing in the wind
A recent video taken of Trump boarding Air Force One on Friday, February 2, appeared to show a completely different view of the President's hair than the public have been used to, since it is usually perfectly coiffed and sprayed in place.
In windy situations, like at the golf course or boarding a plane, Trump usually wears one of his Make America Great Again caps.
In the video, as Donald reaches the stairs, cameras had a rear-facing view as a strong gust of wind flipped a flap of hair over the side of his head to expose a seldom-seen bald spot. 
It was brought to the public's attention by HuffPost reporter Ashley Feinberg who tweeted the video and said: 'I didn't think it could possibly be real but...I think it is?'
at first i didnt think this could possibly be real but.... i think it is? https://t.co/zlm8V0z8hr
— Ashley Feinberg (@ashleyfeinberg) February 7, 2018
Donald Trump's late mother's hair
In a recent interview with Piers Morgan, footage of Trump's late mother Mary was aired, with many pointing out the uncanny resemblance between mother and son's 'dos as she was pictured with an orange-hued bouffant.
A 1997 interview with Australian TV network Foxtel was also unearthed last year showing Mary Trump that led many to make the same observation.
This photo of Donald Trump's mum looks like a character in a film about Trump's life where Trump plays all the roles pic.twitter.com/eUXbfFT0X5
