Opposition Leader Bill Shorten has drawn a line in the sand on the bill. 
Photo: Alex Ellinghausen
Drawing a rare line in the sand on national security, Mr Shorten said freedom of the press was paramount and Labor would not support the foreign espionage crackdown in its current form.
“I won’t support laws that see journalists imprisoned simply for doing their jobs," he told Fairfax Media. “If these laws don’t adequately protect journalists doing their job, the government needs to fix its mistakes."
That is likely to happen sooner rather than later, with Mr Porter reassuring media bosses he intends to patch weaknesses in the bill, in an announcement understood to be on the cards this week.
Mr Porter has previously said changes to the legislation are "inevitable", although he played down hopes for a total carve out for journalists.
Advertisement
Labor's ultimatum represents a departure from its usual position of lock-stock agreement with the government on national security matters. It would force the government to negotiate with the Senate crossbench, including the Nick Xenophon group, which is also opposed to the measures.
New NXT senator Rex Patrick, himself a whistleblower of sorts on the defence industry, said journalists should be exempt from the law if they are "subject to responsible editorial control".
You will now receive updates from Breaking News Alert
Breaking News Alert
Get the latest news and updates emailed straight to your inbox.
By submitting your email you are agreeing to Fairfax Media's terms and conditions and privacy policy .
That would exempt mainstream media but allow the law to be wielded against bloggers or media outlets that serve a foreign government, for example Chinese newspapers in Australia.
“There are many things in the suite of legislation that we support, but the secrecy provisions as they are currently written we can’t," Senator Patrick told Fairfax Media.
The bill as drafted makes it a criminal offence to "deal with" or "communicate" classified government information, which could involve simply receiving, copying or printing documents.
Journalists have a defence open to them but are required to prove they were "engaged in fair and accurate reporting" and that their actions were in the public interest.
Media companies including Fairfax Media, as well as the journalists' union, have argued those terms are too subjective and journalists should have a general exemption from the laws.
Mr Shorten said under his leadership Labor "will always support practical measures that strengthen protections in line with our national security interests but we have to get the balance right", including maintaining a strong media landscape.
"I'm not sure if this is sloppy drafting or deliberately designed by the government to curtail media freedom," he said.
Labor has not said whether it wants a total exemption for journalists or specified exactly what level of extra protections it would accept. The bill is currently before a Senate inquiry.
Another concern cited by Labor sources was the bill's capacity to criminalise innocuous actions by actors other than journalists, such as the man who discovered the so-called "Cabinet Files" inside a filing cabinet he bought at a used furniture auction in Canberra.
The documents were given to the ABC, which published a series of stories based on their contents. The proposed laws could have made the man's actions and the ABC's subsequent reporting illegal.
Shadow attorney-general Mark Dreyfus called on the government to present the redrafted bill "so that we can have a proper debate". He said Labor had extended suitable shield laws to journalist when in government.
"They’ve cast a much, much wider net than is necessary and the defences that have been provided are inadequate," Mr Dreyfus told ABC radio.
More Articles
