Scammers Are Impersonating Elon Musk And Donald Trump To Take Your Bitcoin
And they're using automated networks of bot accounts to do it.
Posted on
Copy Link
What do @Eilon_Musk, @ElonMuski, @EloonMusk, @Elonn_Musk, and @Alon_Musk have in common? Two things, actually: One, none of them are the real Twitter account of Tesla CEO Elon Musk. And two, they are all trying to steal bitcoin.
Scammers impersonating tech CEOs, cryptocurrency evangelists, and even President Donald Trump are using a decades-old trick on Twitter and other social networks to dupe people for a quick buck. Much like the bogus and farcical Nigerian princes that once begged for a few hundred dollars in your email inbox, they appeal to basic human instincts — like greed or sympathy — to con people out of small sums of cryptocurrencies like bitcoin and ether. And they’re using marquee online real estate — including the replies section of @realDonaldTrump's Twitter account — and large automated networks of bot accounts to do it.
Pin
A fake Trump account shilling a bitcoin scam replies to an actual Trump tweet.
“I’m donating 250 BITCOIN! to the BTC community!” @ElonMuski tweeted Thursday in a reply to the billionaire’s real Twitter account. “First 250 transactions with 0.2 BTC sent to the address below will receive 1.0 BTC in the address the 0.2 BTC came from!”
These messages, which typically conclude with the numerical and alphabetic address of an online crypto wallet have begun popping up on Twitter in recent weeks. A cursory search of the social network conducted by BuzzFeed News uncovered 27 fake accounts promoting dubious bitcoin or ethereum “investments,” including 10 mimicking Musk and three pretending to be the president. “We're aware of this form of manipulation and are proactively implementing a number of signals to prevent these types of accounts from engaging with others in a deceptive manner,” a Twitter spokesperson said in a statement. The company began suspending accounts after BuzzFeed News inquired about them. Still, new accounts, including three more posing as Trump, popped up Friday morning and are still active.
While it’s hard to believe that anyone actually falls for these scams, cryptocurrency’s complex and unregulated nature makes them easy to perpetrate. And rapidly fluctuating prices mean that getting even just a handful of unsuspecting victims to send a sliver of a digital currency could mean a payday that’s worth a few thousand dollars.
“People actually do fall for this, and sometimes they fall for it twice.”
