Dems respond to Trump by telling him to #ReleaseTheMemo
By Jesse Byrnes - 02/09/18 10:10 PM EST
1,408
Donald John Trump Tillerson: Russia already looking to interfere in 2018 midterms Dems pick up deep-red legislative seat in Missouri Speier on Trump's desire for military parade: 'We have a Napoleon in the making' MORE 's decision to block the release of a memo countering a GOP surveillance document, calling on Trump to #ReleaseTheMemo.
Democrats took to social media on Friday, seizing on the same rallying cry used by Trump supporters and Republican lawmakers to push for the release of the initial GOP memo earlier this month.
Time for all the Fox News-injected government transparency advocates and diehard Russian Trolls to recycle their "Release the Memo" propaganda!
#BREAKING : Trump just blocked the #DemocraticMemo that sets record straight on @HouseGOP attempt to undermine #TrumpRussia probe.
Americans deserve the truth and this only raises more red flags. RT to demand Trump #ReleaseTheMemo . https://t.co/NzLvYVe38u
Dozens of Republicans called for the release of the GOP memo  earlier this month that alleges improper surveillance of former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page. Trump has said that the memo  "totally vindicates" him in the Russia probe.
ADVERTISEMENT
The GOP memo, drafted by staff for House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes
Devin Gerald Nunes Trump likely to approve release of Dem memo: report Trump called for unity — he didn’t even last a week Mark Levin: Clinton colluded with Russia, 'paid for a warrant' to surveil Carter Page MORE (R-Calif.), was declassified by Trump last week and released by Trump, despite objections from the FBI and Justice Department.
The Intelligence Committee voted earlier this week to release the Democratic-drafted response to the memo, which Trump objected to on Friday , leading a number of Democrats and some Republicans to criticize the move.
The White House said Trump "is inclined to declassify" the Democratic memo but the administration believes it would create “significant concerns” for “national security and law enforcement interests.”
