Trump's 'election integrity' group is waging war on the right to vote
Trump's 'election integrity' group is waging war on the right to vote
The president’s commission lead by Kris Kobach, a champion of repressive voting laws, could do significant damage to hard-won voting rights
by Andrew Gumbel in Los Angeles
Sun 17 Sep 2017 06.00 EDT
Last modified on Fri 9 Feb 2018 13.38 EST
Share on Messenger
Close
The Trump presidency is opening up a new battlefront in the intense and controversial war over American voting rights. After a decade of wrangling between Democrats who have sought to expand voting opportunities and Republicans who have invoked the specter of voter fraud to restrict them, the focus is now on purging registration lists – even at the risk of kicking large numbers of eligible voters off the rolls.
Both Trump’s justice department and his newly formed Presidential Commission on Election Integrity are involved in broad data collection and new policy proposals to “clean up” the voter rolls in ways that critics fear will have a disproportionate impact on blacks, Latinos and newly naturalized citizens.
America's shameful history of voter suppression
Read more
The justice department (DoJ) has also begun issuing legal opinions to support states that have passed restrictive new voting rules, even when they appear to contradict existing federal law. Voting rights activists say these efforts are kicking voter suppression into a higher gear at a time when federal courts are ruling that a flurry of strict new voter ID laws in several Republican-run states discriminate against minority voters and college students.
“There are three major aspects of the voting process – getting registered, making sure you stay registered, and actually voting – and in all three areas we are seeing efforts to suppress the vote,” said Ezra Rosenberg, a voting rights specialist with the Lawyer’s Committee on Human Rights Under Law.
The commission, chaired by vice-president Mike Pence but spearheaded by its vice-chair, Kris Kobach, an ardent champion of repressive voting laws in his native Kansas, has made few public declarations of intent except to ask states in late June for exhaustive information on individual voters. The move led to immediate pushback from the states and from a former Department of Homeland Security chief who said the information could pose a cybersecurity threat .
Pinterest
Donald Trump and Kris Kobach at the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey. Photograph: The Washington Post/Getty Images
The panel held a livestreamed session in July, but only just held its first fully public session last week. Kobach told reporters afterwards that the commission had received data from 20 states so far but was characteristically guarded, even coy, about what he intended to do with it. “[The commission] may make recommendations, or I think at this point there’s a high possibility the commission makes no recommendations and they just say, ‘Here’s the data. States, do with it what you want.’”
Still, voting rights experts and election lawyers are in little doubt what Kobach would like to do. He has made numerous public statements – including in a paid column he writes for Breitbart News – tantamount to a wish list. It includes:
A “proof of citizenship” requirement for voter registration, which was highly controversial and eventually struck down by the federal courts when Kobach tried it in Kansas ahead of the 2016 election.
An expansion of an interstate crosscheck system, despite evidence that it erroneously flags legitimate voters hundreds of times more often than it does actual fraudulent voters casting ballots in more than one state in the same election.
Comparing voter lists with a database of enrollees in a federal benefits program for immigrants as a check against noncitizen voting, even though the database does not track citizenship.
A revision of the 1993 National Voter Registration Act (NVRA), which has repeatedly stood in the way of Kobach’s ambitions in the past.
Taken together, these measures would represent a significant assault on the right to vote and, to judge by Kobach’s record in Kansas, are likely to be tied up in court for years.
Especially frustrating to election managers – of both parties – and voting rights advocates is the fact that Kobach has asserted the existence of problems, like noncitizen voting, that are in fact passingly rare .
List maintenance is a little bit like surgery. What Kobach wants is surgery on a rickety table with a chainsaw
Justin Levitt, former DoJ official
Justin Levitt, a former senior official in the DoJ’s civil rights division, now with the Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said Kobach had in many cases picked up on legitimate issues and then twisted them to reach “a precooked but half-baked conclusion” about voter fraud on an epidemic scale.
“List maintenance is a little bit like surgery,” Levitt said in an interview. “When it’s done by people with skill and precision tools in a calm environment, it can be tremendously helpful, even life-saving. When it’s done sloppily by people who don’t know what they are doing on a shaky table in a hurry, it can be quite dangerous. What Kobach wants is surgery on a rickety table with a chainsaw.”
Kobach did not respond to an interview request from the Guardian.
To counter the mainstream studies dismissing many of Kobach’s assertions, his supporters have begun generating a research trail of their own. One rightwing thinktank called the Government Accountability Institute (cofounded by Steve Bannon with money from Robert and Rebekah Mercer) recently turned to data companies using questionable fuzzy matching to postulate the existence of more than 8,000 double voters in the 2016 election. (Only a handful of instances of actual double-voting have emerged, on a statistically insignificant scale.)
The study was then cited in an essay for the conservative National Review by Hans von Spakovsky, another member of the presidential commission and a longtime advocate of voter purge lists – including a notorious one he helped craft in Florida that was found by one county to be 95% inaccurate .
