A second White House staffer vanquished amid domestic violence allegations. A White House chief of staff under siege for what he knew, and when. A decision to block the release of a Democratic memo about the Russia investigation.
Another frenetic end of the week in the administration of President Donald Trump.
Story Continued Below
Just hours after the White House came to grips with the resignation of former White House staff secretary Rob Porter, speechwriter David Sorenson, who worked at the Council on Environmental, part of the Executive Office of the President, resigned POLITICO’s Andrew Restuccia reports . Unlike Porter, Sorenson tendered his resignation after being confronted by White House officials.
For his part, President Trump sat in the Oval Office and expressed sympathy for Porter, POLITICO’s Edward-Isaac Dovere reports , the latest instance of Trump seeming to take a man’s side during an allegation of abuse.
“Trump has been down this road before—many times— starting with two dozen women who’ve alleged he sexual harassed or assaulted him. His ex-wife Ivana Trump claimed once in a deposition that he raped her, in a rage over bad hair plugs. She later said she didn’t mean “rape” literally.”
Trump’s White House staff lurched into crisis mode again, Restuccia reports , as “as it entered the fourth day of fallout from revelations that chief of staff John Kelly failed to remove an aide accused of domestic abuse until after the news was reported in the press.”
The most reliable politics newsletter.
Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox.
Email
Sign Up
By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time.
Elsewhere in President Trump’s orbit:
DIDN’T GET THE MEMO: President Trump blocked the release of a memo by House Democrats that rebuts last week’s GOP memo on the Russia investigation. He said he can’t release it until more information is redacted.
MICK MUL’D?: President Trump has asked associates what they think of Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney as a potential replacement for John Kelly. (The New York Times)
BRAND MANAGEMENT: Rachel Brand, the no. 3 official at the Department of Justice, is leaving to take up an executive role at Wal-Mart.
CZAR APPOINTED: The White House will nominate deputy chief of staff Jim Carroll as the president’s “drug czar” filling a position that Trump has struggled to lock in.
NO KONTACT: The White House said that President Mike Pence didn’t speak with North Korean officials at the Olympics’ opening ceremony — and they didn’t try to talk to him either.
MORNING AFTER: Here’s a story that explains and relives the “dumbest shutdown ever.”
There you have it. You’re caught up on the Trump administration. Friday marks the end of the week.
