Accused Florida gunman visited McDonalds ...
Accused Florida gunman visited McDonalds after killing
Nikolas Cruz fled the Florida high school by hiding amongst a crowd of frightened students, he then visited two fast food restaurants before he was arrested two hours after the massacre.
More videos
Trump nominates Harry Harris for Australia ambassador
Thirteen months into his presidency, Donald Trump has formally announced his top pick for US ambassador to Australia, in a move likely to anger China.
His nomination by Mr Trump is likely to enjoy an easy confirmation in the US Senate and is a strong signal to China and the Asia-Pacific of America's intentions, experts said.
A statement from the White House describes him as a "highly decorated, combat proven naval officer with extensive knowledge, leadership and geo-political expertise in the Indo-Pacific region".
Related Articles
China's least favourite American firming as Trump's man in Oz
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said he was looking forward to seeing Admiral Harris in Canberra and Labor's foreign affairs spokeswoman Penny Wong said he was "a good friend to Australia".
Admiral Harris has served in the military for nearly 40 years and is the 24th commander of the United States Armed Forces in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region, overseeing 375,000 personnel, 200 ships and more than 1000 aircrafts.
Advertisement
He has been described as a nuanced military diplomat and strategic thinker who has a good relationship with Mr Turnbull, whom he has met several times.
You will now receive updates from Breaking News Alert
Breaking News Alert
Get the latest news and updates emailed straight to your inbox.
By submitting your email you are agreeing to Fairfax Media's terms and conditions and privacy policy .
The 61-year-old has drawn the ire of the Chinese government because of his criticisms of China's activities in the region. He has said Beijing is creating a "great wall of sand" with its militarisation of islands in the disputed South China Sea and accused China of being the "owner of the trust deficit" in Asia.
SHARE
Share on Twitter TWEET
Link
US Navy Admiral Harry Harris, left, and Australian Navy Vice Admiral David Johnston at the start of Talisman Saber 2017, a biennial joint military exercise between the United States and Australia in June. 
Photo: AP
In August, Chinese military analysts labelled Admiral Harris as the "most prejudiced" US military chief since World War II. He has also been accused of seeking publicity and "sowing discord".
Ashley Townshend, director of foreign policy and defence at the United States Studies Centre, said the nomination of Harris was an "extremely strong signal" of the Trump administration's strategy in the region.
"He has deep experience in Asia strategy, he has been at the forefront of the Indo-Pacific debate, he has been outspoken on the need to push back against Chinese assertiveness in Asia," Townshend said.
"Appointing someone of that pedigree shows that the White House endorses his views and he will be in a position to advance this agenda."
Merriden Varrall, director of the East Asia program at the Lowy Institute, said the appointment would cause consternation in Beijing, where it will be viewed as a reinforcement of the Australia-US strategic alliance and a hostile position on China's regional ambitions.
"It fits in very neatly with strongly held views in China about the way in which the West tries to bond together to keep China down, that it's threatened by China's rise, that it wants to persecute and humiliate China," Dr Varrall said.
Amid rumours about his future last year, Admiral Harris said he felt "flattered by the warm response" to the reports and described the ambassador role as a "cool job".
The post has been temporarily filled by Charge d’Affaires James Carouso since the Obama-appointed John Berry stepped down in September 2016.
More than a year after the Trump administration was sworn in, many high-ranking positions in the US State Department remain vacant under the leadership of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
