Share
JACK WALKER
Super League is back and has a new star in the making. Leeds Rhinos full back Walker is lithe, athletic, tough and as good under a high ball as anybody we have seen in recent times. 
Walker is 18 years old and in Australia the scouts of the NRL will be checking their satellite TV subscriptions.
Leeds Rhinos full back Jack Walker (left) is a new star in the making in Super League
EDDIE JONES
The Australian's approach to mind games ahead of Saturday's Wales game could best be described as 'catch all'.
Alun Wyn Jones, Rhys Patchell and referee Jerome Garces were all in the line of fire as the England rugby coach previewed the game. If he was a football manager, he would be getting a letter from the authorities on Monday.
Eddie Jones did not mince his words when asked to preview Saturday's game against Wales
 
NOT
MORGAN SCHNEIDERLIN
The French midfielder says he has been trying to rebuild his relationship with Everton fans after some issues under Ronald Koeman. 
Now he has been caught on camera making what we can generously describe as minimal effort in failing to block a shot during the debacle at Arsenal last weekend. That rebuild may take a little longer than the 28-year-old suspects.
Everton midfielder Morgan Schneiderlin makes minimal effort to block a short against Arsenal
THE WINTER OLYMPICS
The BBC will make sure we are royally entertained during what is always a very watchable jamboree, but why the panic over how cold it's going to be in Pyeongchang? 
The clue, folks, is in the title of the event. The solution, meanwhile, can perhaps be found in the purchase of a thick coat.
The BBC panicked over how cold it will be at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang
MAURICIO POCHETTINO
The Tottenham manager suggested Rochdale's pitch may be dangerous and has hinted their FA Cup tie should be moved. 
Yet Pochettino has not visited Spotland and there were no injuries sustained by either side as Rochdale beat Millwall in round four this week. If the pitch is deemed unsafe by the FA, then there is a very real issue. 
But if it merely stands as an inconvenience to Pochettino and his stars, then we now have another reason to look forward to an old-school Cup tie. 
Mauricio Pochettino doesn't want Spurs' FA Cup tie with Rochdale to be played at Spotland
RELATED ARTICLES
