Kim Kardashian as a social media pioneer?
Who would have guessed?
However, we may have Kim to thank if this long-desired Twitter feature suddenly becomes available: the ability to edit tweets .
The reality TV star recently tweeted, saying, “I just emailed Twitter to see if they can add an edit feature so that when u misspell something u don’t have to delete & repost Let’s see…”
Surprisingly enough, shortly thereafter Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey responded “Great idea!”
Kardashian is hardly the first to long for editable tweets.
Heck, I wish for it every time I misspell a word in a tweet and have to delete and start over!
Still…it does make you wonder what other features are being requested by users.
Check out this list of the top 5 Twitter feature requests (other than editing).
1. Twitter scheduling.
It has always been necessary to use a third party tool like Hootsuite, Tweetdeck, Post Planner or another tool to schedule tweets unless you are using Twitter ads.
If you have set up Twitter ads, you can schedule organic and promoted tweets up to a year in advance. However, for many this inconvenience isn’t worth the hassle and they simply go elsewhere for scheduling.
Users would like to see the scheduling functionality in the main interface.
I, personally, would like to be able to schedule my retweets. As I’m going through lists of industry influencers I certainly don’t want to rapidly tweet all of the great information I find there.
I want to spread that great information out throughout the day. Currently I use Hootsuite for this, but I would love to be able to have this same functionality on Twitter.
2. The ability to log into multiple accounts.
Ugh! This is such a pain, especially for users who manage business accounts as well as their own.
It would be great to be able to be logged into multiple accounts at one time and then switch back and forth easily.
3. Allowing more characters in tweets.
While you definitely want to keep the tweets short in the newsfeed, sometimes you just can’t fit everything into the 140 character limit. On those occasions, it would be great to be able to tweet up to, say, 250 characters and then in the newsfeed have the option to click to read more.
4. Allowing more characters in DMs.
Have you ever tried responding to someone’s message and ran out of characters?
SO FRUSTRATING! Twitter actually came out and said that they will be expanding the character limit for direct messages from 140 to 10,000 characters , a change they said will take place in July 2015.
Still waiting as it hasn’t rolled out to everyone just yet…
5. A list of our most frequently used hashtags.
This could be useful on both Instagram and Twitter, actually.
Sure, you can create a bank of your best hashtags in a note on your phone (or computer), but it would be much more convenient if typing a hashtag pulled up a list of the ones you use most often so you can grab them quickly without pausing to brainstorm hashtags.
Even better, it would be fantastic if you could generate a list by seeing the most commonly used hashtags RELATED to a hashtag you enter. This is essentially what Hashtagify does, but it would be nice to do this without having to leave Twitter.
So what are the chances that Social Quant can get the same response to my “wish list” that Kim Kardashian has?
Umm…I’m guessing slim to none. But hey, here’s to hoping!
What Twitter features would you love to see? Leave a comment below and let’s start a discussion.
