Matthias Hangst/Getty Images Sport/Getty Images
Kim Jong-Un’s Sister’s Face At The Olympics Opening Ceremony Is Twitter’s Favorite Meme
Share
The Olympics is a time for a peace and friendly competition. However, this year, there is tension in the air due to the presence of North Korea. In attendance to represent the country was Kim Jong-un's sister, Kim Yo-jong. Things remained even more awkward as she sat next to the Vice President of the United States, Mike Pence. Viewers could not handle the strain, and tweets about Kim Jong-un's sister's face at the Olympics are too good.
North Korea in attendance at the Olympics is a big deal. Kim Yo-jung, the youngest sister to North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, along with other members of North Korea's government arrived in PyeongChang via Kim Jong-un's private jet on Feb. 9. According to ABC, their arrival was a giant topic of conversation around the country (and world) and "was broadcast live on South Korean TV."
This year's Olympics brought a lot of firsts. Kim's arrival wasn't just a powerful image for the games, but for the relationship between North and South Korea. Stepping foot off the big white jet marked Kim as the first person from the "Kim Dynasty to step on South Korean lands since the end of the Korean War in 1953."
We did see Kim smile at the games during the entrance of North and South Korea and while talking to the South's unification minister. This shows that some things do make her happy. However, she clearly DGAF about Mike Pence or the USA's entrance... and has the side eye to prove it.
Twitter can't stop making jokes about Kim's unimpressed face during the Olympics .
The side-eye is a big deal because of the tensions between North Korea and the United States over the past few months. North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and U.S. President Donald Trump have been in a war of words for several months , trading insults, threats, and just generally bad-mouthing each other. Which would be ridiculous, if not for the fact that both people are leaders of nations with potential nuclear arsenals.
So Kim's expression during the U.S. athletes' entrance is kind of shady, if in an international political sense.
Also, people seem to think Kim Yo-jung learned to clap from Nicole Kidman. LET'S TALK ABOUT THIS MORE.
Here's Nicole for comparison.
An even bigger deal is that North Korea and South Korea will be walking under the same flag this year. In addition, there will also be a joint North and South Korean women's hockey team. Reportedly, in the weeks leading up to the games, skiers from the North and South have been training together at a resort together in North Korea.
The teams are competing under a joint unification flag that depicts a blue silhouette of the peninsula that makes up North and South Korea, including the surrounding islands. The countries also marched under this flag during 1991 World Table Tennis Championships, as well as during the 2006 Winter Games in Turin, Italy .
The announcement that the two countries would compete together at the Olympics in January was the latest development since conversations opened earlier in the month, according to CNN.
Before that, communication was basically nonexistent. The New York Times even noted that there was never a peace treaty signed "to end the 1950-53 Korean War." The publication explains,
For years, the rival Koreas used the Games to showcase their competing claims to represent the Korean people, and try to one-up each other.
While the countries seemingly coming together and opening communication seems like a good thing — other allies to South Korea are skeptical.
Other leaders around the world voiced their concerns during a summit on Jan. 16 in Vancouver, Canada. The alarming suspicions are that   North Korea is using the PyeongChang Olympics to buy time to advance their weapons programs.
U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said of America's relationship with the communist country, "The pressure campaign will continue until North Korea takes decisive steps to de-nuclearize." Tillerson also added, "We cannot be complacent."
Japan, Canada, and the United Kingdom were also in attendance at the summit. Japanese Foreign Minister, Taro Kono, articulated his mistrust when he said,
I believe that North Korea wants to buy some time to continue their nuclear and missile programs. It's not the time to ease pressure towards North Korea.
On the other hand, China's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Lu Kang, believes that immediately criticizing North Korea could lead to more problems and uncertainty. He said,
[Such thinking] will only lead to split in the international community and harm the joint efforts that could properly solve the nuclear issue on Korea peninsula.
Overall, no one is certain about North Korea's alternatives. The goal is to ease tensions and ultimately denuclearize North Korea. Hopefully, PyeongChang is a step in the right direction.
More to come.
Check out the entire Gen Why series and other videos on Facebook and the Bustle app across Apple TV, Roku, and Amazon Fire TV.
