Opt out or contact us anytime
Lawyers in the counsel’s office believed that the bureau — with its vast investigative powers — was best positioned to look into the accusations, the two people briefed on the matter said, and that it was not their job to investigate conduct that took place long before an official began working in the administration.
That represents a sharp break with past practice, in which White House counsels undertook elaborate vetting of senior advisers before they were hired — and looked into any serious allegations that surfaced thereafter.
In November, the White House heard back from the F.B.I. Senior White House officials, including Mr. Kelly, Joe Hagin, the deputy chief of staff, and Mr. McGahn received word from the bureau that the allegations were credible and that Mr. Porter was not likely to pass his background check.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
But while Mr. McGahn privately informed Mr. Porter and encouraged him to consider moving on, according to one of the two people briefed, no action was taken to immediately terminate him. Rather, Mr. McGahn requested that the F.B.I. complete its investigation and come back to the White House with a final recommendation, a process that could take months.
On Friday, several White House aides described confusion among the staff about why Mr. Kelly and others had initially rallied to defend Mr. Porter, and some suggested that Mr. Kelly had tried to cover up what he knew. Others insisted that while he was aware of the broad strokes of accusations against Mr. Porter, and while he could have made more of an effort to learn more, he trusted the staff secretary’s denials.
Mr. Kelly began telling people at the White House on Thursday that he had learned the details of Mr. Porter’s situation only “40 minutes before he threw him out” two days earlier, before pictures of Mr. Porter’s bruised ex-wife began circulating.
But on Wednesday afternoon, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, and other aides had maintained to reporters that the White House fully backed Mr. Porter, who they said was leaving of his own accord. She issued a statement saying that both the president and Mr. Kelly had “full confidence” in his performance.
In a meeting with senior staff members on Friday morning, Mr. Kelly appeared to be trying to paint his handling of the matter in a more favorable light. At the end of the session, according to people with knowledge of his remarks, Mr. Kelly volunteered that he had something he wanted to “clarify.”
Mr. Kelly went on to say that he had learned of Mr. Porter’s true situation less than an hour before he removed him from his job. Two people familiar with the comments said that most of the staff appeared incredulous; one person said several people in the room knew that the timeline Mr. Kelly had presented was false.
As the meeting broke up, Ms. Hicks loudly complained about what had transpired, using an expletive, a person briefed on the meeting said.
The infighting unfolded amid signs of a brewing shake-up in the West Wing.
The president has now sounded out several people as possible replacements for Mr. Kelly. Those possible replacements include Mick Mulvaney, the budget director; Representative Kevin McCarthy of California; and Gary D. Cohn, Mr. Trump’s top economic adviser. He has also returned to a notion he has raised privately in the past, telling people he would like Thomas J. Barrack Jr., a close friend and confidant, to take the job.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Mr. Kelly is not ready to explicitly offer a resignation, according to a person familiar with his thinking. But people close to Mr. Trump said the president had begun the process of making the job so unpleasant for Mr. Kelly that it might hasten his departure, the same sort of ritual humiliation to which he subjected Reince Priebus, his first chief of staff, before his departure in July.
Despite his warm words on Friday, two advisers said, Mr. Trump was livid when he learned of the allegations against Mr. Porter, and referred to his disgraced former aide in one phone call as “bad garbage.” He also expressed his frustration with both Mr. Kelly and Ms. Hicks.
On Friday evening, the White House announced new posts for 31 officials, including elevating to acting staff secretary Derek Lyons, another Harvard Law School-educated lawyer, who formerly worked on Capitol Hill and had been Mr. Porter’s No. 2. Also included on the list was the departure of Jim Carroll, a lawyer in the counsel’s office who had only recently been designated to be Mr. Kelly’s deputy, but will now become acting director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Under Fire, Kelly Is Said to Muse About Resigning. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
