Berrios aide tried to keep challenger in primary to avoid one-on-one race
Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune
Cook County Assessor Joe Berrios’ campaign spokeswoman took steps to try to keep a primary challenger on the March ballot and prevent a one-on-one matchup with asset manager Fritz Kaegi.
Cook County Assessor Joe Berrios’ campaign spokeswoman took steps to try to keep a primary challenger on the March ballot and prevent a one-on-one matchup with asset manager Fritz Kaegi. (Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune)
Hal DardickChicago Tribune
Privacy Policy
Cook County Assessor Joe Berrios ’ campaign spokeswoman took steps to try to keep a primary challenger on the March ballot and prevent a one-on-one matchup with asset manager Fritz Kaegi.
An election official on Monday recommended Democratic assessor candidate Andrea Raila be kicked out of the race because of a problem with the petition signatures she needs to run. Soon after, Berrios spokeswoman Monica Trevino sent a private Facebook message requesting an objection to Raila’s candidacy be dropped, possibly clearing a path for her campaign to continue.
Trevino’s message went to Shana East, who had filed the objection against Raila. East is a board member of Our Revolution Illinois, a group that endorsed Kaegi early in the race.
“I really think it’s foul what Fritz is doing to Andrea,” stated Trevino’s message, which East provided to the Tribune. “Regardless of your thoughts about Berrios we should never silence a woman. You were an objector. Anyway, you pull that objection and allow voters to decide. Fritz is bullying a woman.”
Kaegi’s campaign on Friday suggested the message showed that the Berrios and Raila campaigns were “coordinating.” Kaegi’s campaign prefers a one-on-one matchup with Berrios. Beating him in the primary could prove especially difficult if any anti-Berrios vote is split by two opponents.
But Trevino said in a statement she “was never asked by anyone to contact East,” with whom she worked on Cook County Commissioner Jesus “Chuy” Garcia’s 2015 campaign for mayor. “I was reaching out to her because she and I are friends.”
“I’m saddened to hear that a private conversation between two friends about the solidarity for women was disclosed,” Trevino said. “Regardless of the side we are on, I would never condone the bullying that Andrea Raila has been subjected to by Fritz Kaegi in his attempt to keep her off the ballot.”
Berrios did not return phone calls on Friday.
East said she and Trevino talked on the phone after the original Facebook message. Trevino tried to convince her that objecting to Raila’s petitions would go against their shared belief in progressive, feminist causes, East said.
The conversation, East said, left her “overwhelmed,” to the point that she “didn’t know what to do.” She said called to county election officials to determine what would be involved in removing herself as an objector to Raila’s petitions.
Raila confirmed that she, too, talked to East about withdrawing as an objector, adding that she also spoke to David Temkin, the other objector in the case. But Raila said she did not even know who Trevino was, and Trevino said she was not aware of any conversation between Raila and East.
In the end, East said she decided to not withdraw her objection after talking to someone from Kaegi’s campaign. “I’m 100 percent supporting Fritz Kaegi,” she said.
Berrios is seen as vulnerable in some quarters amid controversy over his methods for assessing property and habit of hiring relatives to work in his office.
“The Tax Divide,” a series published by the Tribune and ProPublica Illinois, concluded that Berrios’ assessment practices gave unwarranted tax breaks to the wealthy, pushing more of the burden onto the poor.
The fate of Raila’s campaign could become more clear on Tuesday, when the county’s Electoral Board is scheduled to hear the case. A hearing officer concluded the Raila campaign engaged in a “pattern of fraud” in an attempt to secure enough signatures to run in the race and recommends she be removed from the ballot.
Raila said of the hearing officer’s recommendation: “There’s nothing that was a deep pattern of fraud, and I will prove that.”
