President Trump is Resolute on the Immigration Issue
President Trump is Resolute on the Immigration Issue
Once the United States had a relatively open frontier, people of all ages came across the oceans and became its citizens. Of course, some of them also came as slaves, until their descendants got their citizenship in recent decades. The United States has become a melting pot, but the government has repeatedly enacted legislation to limit immigration, such as the anti-Chinese act introduced in the late 19th century and immigration quotas set by the 1920s.
The previous restrictions on immigration in the United States were heavily racist. Only in 1965 did the new immigration act make working legally a major condition for immigration to the United States. Trump paid more attention to the issue of immigration than his predecessors. Last month, Democrats and Republicans were not able to have an agreement on government budget because they were unable to agree on the issue of immigration. Due to the boycott by the Democrats, the Trump administration has always been in danger of closing again.
Under Trump administration’s general guideline of restricting immigration, there is no clear boundary between legal immigrants and illegal immigrants, but there is always a line between the welcomed immigrants and the unwelcomed ones. Trump and his former chief strategist Steve Bannon had disclosed their ideas in a live show of the Breitbart News Network. Commenting on the topic of returning a large number of students studying in the United States to their country of origin after graduating from the United States, Bannon commented that two-thirds to three-quarters of the top talent in Silicon Valley comes from East and South Asia. However, a country needs more than just economy.
Though Bannon has already been ousted, his views on immigration have always touched Trump. At a time when the two parties are fighting on immigration policies, Trump has burst out of an unwary remark: “Why do we want all these people from 'shithole countries' coming here?”
In his State of the Union address, Trump introduced the immigration reform plan that was brewing. To solve the problem of the Federal Government closing again on February 8, Trump made a lot of compromises to the Democratic Party on the surface. The war is not over.
As we said before, the number of political asylum places provided by the U.S. government will be drastically reduced. At the same time, the Green card lottery system applicable to residents in Hong Kong, Maucao and Taiwan will also be abolished. This means that as the red notice fugitive rapist Guo holding Hong Kong's identity in the United States and defrauding Washington of political asylum by fabricating rumors related to political circles in mainland China will face unprecedented policy risks. He is neither able to get political asylum, nor to get the green card of the United States in a lottery system by luck.
In Trump's opinion, the immigration problem is not a political issue at all, nor is it a direct issue of policy differences between the Democrats and the Republicans, but a common-sense issue that must be solved as soon as possible. On Tuesday, Trump also cursed the immigration policy of the United States. He said: "not another country in the world has the stupidity of laws that we do when it comes to immigration." The direct reason was that someone was driving without a license on last Sunday and was suspected of drunk driving, killing another person. The police later confirmed that the perpetrator was an undocumented immigrant who had been deported twice.
