Search
Search→
BROWSER UPDATE To gain access to the full experience, please upgrade your browser: Chrome | Safari | Firefox | Internet Explorer
Note: If you are running Internet Explorer 10 and above, make sure it is not in compatibility mode.
Complete Coverage
Winter Olympics 2018: Full Coverage From Pyeongchang
Last Updated Feb 17, 2018 at 12:35 am ET
Dispatches, analysis and breaking news from our team in South Korea. Sign up for our daily Olympics Briefing and watch our full lineup of videos .
SHARE
Jason Gay: Mikaela Shiffrin Is Going to Be OK
The Cruelest Two Minutes of the Olympics for Team USA
Mikaela Shiffrin Falters Under Stresses of History and Weather
See only Editors' Picks
Sign Up for Our Olympics Briefing
Reporting live from the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. Get the smartest insights delivered to your inbox. Sign up for our Olympics Briefing .
Facebook
Twitter
Japanese Star Hanyu Takes Gold, First Male Skater in 60 Years to Win in Back-to-Back Olympics
GANGNEUNG, South Korea — Japan’s Yuzuru Hanyu defended his Olympic title, overcoming a mid-season injury to become the first man in more than sixty years to win back-to-back gold medals in figure skating.
Hanyu's powerful performance included four quadruple jumps.
Japanese fans who packed the arena for Hanyu — and Japanese reporters who had followed his presence since his security-guarded arrival here — were rewarded with a silver medal for Hanyu’s compatriot Shoma Uno, one of a handful of male figure skaters who have rocked their sport over the past four years with an explosion of quadruple jumps.
The men’s final shattered a host of Olympic records, both in the technical content attempted by the skaters and the quality of their performances. Many doubled the number of quadruple jumps they had offered four years ago in Sochi, in performances that were also marred by significant errors even from the medalists.
Hanyu’s training mate Javier Fernandez won a bronze medal, becoming the first Spaniard to win a figure skating medal. He did so despite coming from a country with a figure skating tradition so slender that it has been barely able to hold a national championships for much of Fernandez’s career.
Nathan Chen, the American whose gold medal hopes were dashed after a disastrous short program left him in 17th position, fought back Saturday to set an international and Olympic record of his own by attempting six quadruple jumps in the free skate, and performing five of them cleanly.
The performance rocketed Chen to fifth place overall, with compatriots Vincent Zhou and Adam Rippon all finishing within the top ten skaters.
Louise Radnofsky
Twitter
A Rebound for Nathan Chen
Nathan Chen came back in the men’s free skate from the two worst short programs of his senior career to set a new international and Olympic record by attempting six quadruple jumps and landing five of them cleanly in his “Mao’s Last Dancer” long program.
The 18-year-old Chen has been one of the drivers of the explosion of quadruple jumps in the men’s event in the past four years. For context, Yuzuru Hanyu won the 2014 Olympic title with one clean quadruple jump in his long program; he is expected to attempt four here later today, as may his chief rival, Shoma Uno, also of Japan.Chen set past high bars for the world by landing four, and then five quadruple jumps in his long programs.
Chen’s program here earned him a score of 215.08 — potentially crushing for his rivals on a different day, but one that will likely still not be enough to earn him a medal after his 17th place finish in the short program. He currently has a total of 297.35.
Still, he said, the performance was redemptive for him and came after he was buoyed by supportive messages that he could still go out and make the most of his time on Olympic ice.
“I was just so low there was nothing I could lose at that point,” said Chen, who reeled off a quadruple lutz, two quadruple flips, two quadruple toe loops and a quadruple salchow, two of them in combination with other jumps, and with only one error on a quadruple flip, where he put a hand down on landing. He also secularly completed his triple axel, which had floored him in previous programs.
Louise Radnofsky
The Pride Flag Waves at the Olympics For Adam Rippon
Getty Images
GANGNEUNG, South Korea—Ian Rodriguez realized not long before the Pyeongchang Games that he would be in Asia with his husband during the Olympics. “Let’s go,” he said. Rodriguez bought tickets, changed his travel plans and went on Amazon to buy something he wanted to pack for his last-minute trip: a Pride flag with stars and rainbow stripes.
Rodriguez, a 35-year-old X-ray technician from Las Vegas, brought that flag to the men’s figure-skating competition on Friday morning here and unfurled it after the short program of Adam Rippon, the first American figure skater to compete at the Olympics while openly gay.
It was a remarkable sight: Rippon basking in the crowd’s support after the best skate of his life, even holding his hand to his ear to ask for more noise, as Rodriguez waved a flag representing equality in the Olympic arena.
“He’s someone who represents my country and represents me,” Rodriguez said. “I feel like our community is not represented enough, and I’m proud that he has the balls to come out and be like: I’m gay, and I’m an Olympic athlete, and here I am. He doesn’t care what anyone thinks. He’s there for our community.”
As recently as four years ago in Sochi, there were no publicly gay U.S. Olympians. There are now three—Rippon, freestyle skier Gus Kenworthy and speed-skater Brittany Bowe—and Rodriguez came to Pyeongchang in part to cheer for them specifically. “The fact that we have three athletes in the U.S. who are out and representing the LGBT community was even more of a push,” he said. “Everyone always comes out after they win their medal. And it’s like, well, it would be great if it was during the Olympics.”
Rodriguez isn’t a diehard Olympics fan. “I don’t have everyone’s names memorized or anything like that,” he said. He barely knew who Rippon was before the Games began.
It was through following Kenworthy that he learned of the flashy and sassy Rippon—the one who competes in a tight mesh shirt with shorter sleeves for the Olympics, once clarified that his butt was real, recently called himself a  and  that “I don’t want people to get distracted and forget how beautiful I am (on the outside)”—and Rodriguez knew he had to be there for what turned out to be a brilliant skate .
Rippon, an unlikely first-time Olympian, found himself in seventh place as the top American skater after the short program on Friday, and Rodriguez celebrated by waving the flag he bought on Amazon. Figure-skating fans have long waved countries’ flags at international competitions and homemade banners for particular skaters at local events. But the Pride flag was so new that Rippon—one of three figure skaters competing here while openly gay, an Olympic first—couldn’t help but notice it when he qualified for Team USA at the national championships last month.
“It’s overwhelming,” Rippon told The Wall Street Journal afterward. “It’s something that I’ve never seen before, and it’s something that’s so awesome.”
Rodriguez brings his Pride flag wherever he goes in Pyeongchang. When he posted a photo of himself on Instagram displaying the flag at last week’s Opening Ceremony, he tagged people he thought would be interested, like Kenworthy, Rippon and Bowe. “I even put RuPaul,” he said.
Kenworthy himself saw the notification on his Instagram and commented underneath Rodriguez’s post. “Thanks so much!” he wrote with three heart emojis.
This is Rodriguez’s first time to the Olympics, like Rippon, and he didn’t know what to expect. He said he’s enjoying the Winter Games so much that he’s already planning a trip to the next Summer Games.
Ben Cohen, Louise Radnofsky
Twitter
Lindsey Vonn’s Debut Is Delayed
The high winds that postponed the women’s Alpine skiing slalom and giant slalom have pushed back the debut of Lindsey Vonn at the Pyeongchang Olympics.
The Super G, a one-run race, was delayed until noon Saturday local time, or 10 p.m. ET on Friday. It is the first event here for Vonn, the 33-year-old Olympic veteran trying to become the oldest woman to win an Alpine skiing medal.
Vonn will race first.
