September 16, 2017 Teo Dora BREAKING NEWS , REPUBLICAN PARTY , WORLD NEWS 3
Any individual who voted in favor of President Donald Trump is as bigot as the man himself, as per Rage Against the Machine bassist Tim Commerford — yet the performer says there is a way that Trump voters can exonerate themselves and “influence it to right.”
In an improvised meeting with TMZ this week, Commerford said that the most pressing issue confronting the world today isn’t a danger of war from North Korea, or natural concerns, yet rather bigotry. The bassist said that supposed “Visionaries,” or those profiting from previous President Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, are “Americans” and “have rights recently like every one of us do.”
At the point when the TMZ cameraman got some information about the possibility of some DACA recipients being extradited, he answered: “In light of the fact that our leader is a bigot.”
“Whoever voted in favor of him is a bigot,” he included. “Any individual who voted in favor of him is supremacist, he’s a bigot. What’s more, as a bigot who voted in favor of a supremacist, you have a chance to influence it to right, and concede that you settled on the wrong choice.”
Commerford said Trump supporters could influence things to right on the off chance that they would simply say, “‘I f*cked up.'”
“That is the thing that they should state. They ought to concede they voted in favor of a bigot and that is the means by which they can influence it to right,” he said.
Commerford has been a frank commentator of the president alongside his new melodic super-gathering, Prophets of Rage, which is included a few of his kindred Rage Against the Machine bandmates alongside Public Enemy’s Chuck D and DJ Lord and Cypress Hill rapper B Real.
The gathering performed in Cleveland amid the Republican National Convention in 2016, and have discharged music focusing on the president and his arrangements.
The band’s self-titled presentation collection, including melodies like “Unf*ck the World” and “Hail to the Chief,” is expected out this month.
