Regional members of Congress largely support budget deal; Reps. Smith, Clay vote against it
Chuck Raasch • St. Louis Post-Dispatch
In this Feb. 6, 2018 photo, Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., address reporters just outside the U.S. Senate chambers. Sen. Cory Gardner, R-Colo., is at left. Photo by Chuck Raasch, St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
By Chuck Raasch St. Louis Post-Dispatch
Feb 9, 2018
WASHINGTON • All four U.S. senators from Missouri and Illinois voted for the two-year budget blueprint that passed Congress and ended a mini-shutdown in the early hours of Friday morning, but there were schisms in the House, where Rep. Jason Smith, R-Salem, Mo., voted no.
The measure passed both Houses of Congress and was signed by President Donald Trump early Friday morning. It raises federal spending by an estimated $400 billion. Critics fought it as a reckless addition to already looming trillion-dollar deficits that some critics say are contributing to an unsettled stock market.
Budget caps on defense spending would be raised by $80 billion in the current fiscal year, which ends in September, and $85 billion in 2019. Domestic spending increases — insisted upon by Democrats — would go up by more than $130 billion over both years.
Democrats who favored the measure generally praised its boosts in domestic spending; Republicans tended to favor increased defense spending.
The bill also includes measures pushed by St. Louis members, including a provision backed by Sen. Roy Blunt. R-Mo., that will allow houses of worship to receive federal disaster assistance.
Regional Republican House members in tough re-election fights, including Reps. Mike Bost, R-Collinsville, and Ann Wagner, R-Ballwin, praised a provision tucked into the bill that repeals a payment advisory board set up under the Affordable Care Act.
“This legislation repeals Obamacare’s ‘death panels,’ which endangered the sanctity of life and basic health care access for the most vulnerable members of our community,” Wagner said, using the derisive term that Republicans have assigned to that Medicare payment board for years. “Combined with the already passed repeal of Obamacare’s individual mandate, it is clear we are continuing our promise to repeal the most burdensome components of Obamacare.”
That individual mandate went away in the tax cuts Congress passed in December, which no Democrats supported.
Democrats have decried the attacks on Obamacare and warned that they will push more people off health insurance and will raise the cost of insurance for those who keep it.
Missouri Republican Senate candidate Austin Petersen praised Sen. Rand Paul’s attempts to delay the vote and said he, like Paul, would have opposed the deal because it potentially adds hundreds of billions of dollars to the federal debt. Paul, R-Ky., held up the vote until the early hours Friday, saying that his fellow Republicans were “hypocrites” who never would have supported the bill had it been submitted under the previous president, Democrat Barack Obama.
The cross-currents from the St. Louis region reflect the general divisions in Congress over the measure.
The Senate passed it 71-28, with Sens. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo.; Roy Blunt, R-Mo.; Dick Durbin, D-Ill., and Tammy Duckworth, D-Ill., all voting yes.
Sixteen of the 28 “no” votes came from Republicans, many of them expressing worry about the red ink it will produce.
But Blunt, who chairs a key health care appropriations subcommittee, focused on what he said would be benefits for Missouri, including national boosts of $600 million for community health centers, $6 billion more to fight opioid addictions, an additional $1 billion annually for National Institutes of Health research, $20 billion to expand rural broadband, nearly $18 billion for Corps of Engineers and Department of Agriculture water and flood-control projects, and a 10-year funding blueprint for the government’s children’s health insurance program.
The bill “provides the level of defense funding we need to keep our military strong and our country safe,” Blunt said. “The measure also includes additional resources that will save lives and strengthen communities.”
He said more than 500,000 Missourians without health care coverage or who are on Medicaid depended on community health care centers for medical needs.
McCaskill, too, praised those measures, and focused on boosts in domestic spending as a main reason why she supported the measure, even though 12 of her Democratic or independent colleagues opposed it.
Before the vote, she had called the bipartisan agreement a “positive step away from the kind of brinksmanship and stop-gap funding measures that have undermined Missourians’ confidence in their government.”
But Petersen, the GOP Senate candidate, would have voted no, his spokesman, Jeffrey Carson, told the Post-Dispatch.
“This is a great example of why Austin is in this race,” Carson said. “Because like many Missourians, he’s sick and tired of sending politicians to Washington who break their promises.”
Attorney General Josh Hawley would have voted for the measure, a spokesman said, but Hawley, the Republican front-runner to oppose McCaskill in the November election, said this in a statement:
“I don’t accept the premise of your question that the dysfunctional Senate we have today is the best we can do. The reason I am running is to get rid of exactly this kind of mess.”
His campaign press secretary, Kelli Ford, said Hawley “will also fight to get rid of the filibuster, so we don’t get forced to choose between two bad options like this.”
The threat of a filibuster required a 60-vote threshold in the Senate to end debate, a number that the Senate has struggled to reach on key issues.
In the House, Rep. William Lacy Clay, D-St. Louis, joined with 118 other Democrats in voting no. Smith was one of 67 Republicans, most of them deficit hawks, who voted against it. Rep. Billy Long, R-Springfield, was the only other member of the Missouri delegation to vote against it.
Reps. Rodney Davis, R-Taylorville, Ill.; and John Shimkus, R-Collinsville, voted yes.
