Another Taua to head to Reno - this time it's Ainuu
Lorenzo J. Reyna lreyna@leecentralcoastnews.com
Buy Now
Former Lompoc High star Ainuu Taua expressed his pride and support for his younger brother, Toa, during the signing ceremony on Wednesday. Per his father Tee Taua, Ainuu is transferring to Nevada as a grad transfer and will play his last college football season there. 
Bill Morson, Contributor
Save
Looks like there will be yet another Taua on the Nevada Wolf Pack football roster for the 2018-19 season.
Per his father, Tee Taua, former Lompoc High star Ainuu Taua will be transferring from UCLA and head to the University of Nevada-Reno – joining his older brother Vai (who serves as the special teams coordinator on the coaching staff) and younger brother Toa, who signed his National Letter of Intent to Nevada on Wednesday.
“He put in his transfer. He’s transferring to play his last year with Toa (as a graduate transfer). He graduates (from UCLA) in June,” Tee Taua said.
Ainuu Taua was present inside the Taua household during Toa’s national signing day ceremony to support his younger brother, who became an official member of the 2018 recruiting class for the Wolf Pack after signing with UNR.
Ainuu said that along with pursuing his target graduation date of June, he’s been in Westwood to rehab his knee from this past season. Taua suffered a torn ACL and MCL during a November game against Utah – requiring multiple surgeries.
During his time with UCLA, Taua helped anchor the defensive line and played on special teams for the Bruins during the period Jim Mora was head coach. Mora also experimented at using Taua as an extra fullback during the 2016 season before deciding to keep him on the line. Mora, though, was fired on Nov. 19 and the Bruins have since hired Chip Kelly to run the show at Westwood.
Get breaking news sent instantly to your inbox
Sign Up!
I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site consitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.
While at Lompoc High, Ainuu Taua rose to recruiting fame as a prized four-star recruit according to recruiting website 247 Sports. Taua was targeted by several Pac-12 and Mountain West Conference programs before he decided on UCLA in December of 2013. The versatile Taua shined as a fullback and receiver out of the backfield, but was a primary mainstay on the Braves’ defensive line. He led LHS with seven sacks during his senior season according to Max Preps and finished with 21 career sacks in his three-year varsity career for the Braves.
Taua played on Brave teams that went 37-3 during his three-year run.
Love
