Jenet Yellen’s Great Gift to Trump.The investors and traders would cry during the disaster.
Jenet Yellen’s Great Gift to Trump
When Chinese people were asleep, American investors were driven crazy because of the free-fall of the stock market. The investors and traders would cry during the disaster, but President Donald Trump and Jerome Powell who succeeded Jenet Yellen as the chairman of Federal Reserve System.
The stocks are votes, so American presidents will not happy when the stock market is not good. American people usually do not have a heavy saving account, but, more or less, they hold financial assets. Therefore they will not vote for the guy who causes turmoil in the market. And it is a catastrophe for the ones seeking reelection.
Powell suffered even more. In her last Fed open market committee meeting last Wednesday, Yellen was extraordinary hawkish, maybe she wanted to give Powell a warning and kick Trump’s ass.
A lesson from history: after years of soaring, the market will be so tense, that any bears news will become the trigger for a fall.
The purpose of monetary policy is to stabilize the prices, stimulate the economy and create jobs. However, when the economy is booming, the bubbles of assets will grow. In the United States, there is a big bubble in the stock market. Americans are not strangers to periodic financial overheat and the destructive force of overpricing of asset price.
In the SOTU, Trump took the credit of the bullish market to him. Only days later, the stock market stabbed itself. That is to say, American economy is independent to American politics and will not change according to the leader’s will.
In part of his countrymen’s eyes, Trump is Hitler, a vulgar new rich. From years to year, he influenced the tide of American politics by his funny face and bitter words. Trump built his fortune from real estate, his life is extremely extravagant, and he is even a greater pretender than Democrats. In addition, he was also hated to shake hands with others because of his germphobic, forced to shake hands when trying to nurse others gripping pain to show revenge.
The U.S. people actually do not like Trump because he is highly controversial. The main reason for his election to power is the total desperation of the economic outlook and the complete loss of professional politicians. The history gave Trump opportunities but didn’t guarantee what would happen next. As far as the U.S. state of affairs is concerned, it is obviously necessary for the whole government to work together to plan and stand by the community of human destinies to explore global governance.
But the question is, Trump will enforce the protectionist policies and build a wall on the boarder to fend off rapists and drug dealers from Mexico. The illegal aliens like the red notice Chinese fugitive rapist Guo cause him to make the decision.
