Share
'So are you dating?' the momager asked.
Let's do lunch! Just a day before the preview's release Friday, the duo were seen lunching together at Q Sushi in LA
'Sure' Scott replied hesitantly.
That didn't stop Jenner, who continued to poke for details.
'Are you dating one person? Just one?'
It wasn't a strange question, seeing as Disick was pictured making out with a revolving door of beauties after his split with Kourt at the start last year. 
Let's get personal! In the clip, Kris jumps right into the topic of dating, asking Disick 'So are you dating?'
Short answer: 'Sure' Scott replied hesitantly before Kris prodded for even more details
Still playing his cards close to the chest, Scott said: 'Yeah, it's something new.' 
'Are you going steady?' Kris cooed with a wry smile.
'I guess that's what the kids call it,' laughed Scott before confirming that the lady in question was none-other than Sofia Richie, the teen daughter of singer Lionel.
Playing the field? Jenner made a point of asking if Disick was dating 'just one' person, not an unusual question knowing Scott's 
Don't count her out! Scott's answer only prompted more questions from Kris, who asked: 'Wait, so how old is she?' Because I really don't know. Is she Kylie's age? 20?'
Getting the numbers right: After learning the model was only 19, the California native asked confirmed Scott's age
Scott's answer only prompted more questions from Kris, who asked: 'Wait, so how old is she?' Because I really don't know. Is she Kylie's age? 20?'
After learning the model was only 19, the California native confirmed Scott's age. 
'You're 34? OK, so I was 17 and Robert was 12 years older,' Kris remembered.
Cleverly, Scott spots a difference, telling Jenner: 'You were underage, she's not.'
Flashback: Kris compared Scott's relationship to the 12-year age difference between herself and late husband Robert (together in 1978 above)  
Over/under: Cleverly, Scott spots a difference, telling Jenner: 'You were underage, she's not' to which Kris responded 'Touché!'
Far from offended, Kris smiled and told her almost son-in-law 'Touché!'
Scott isn't the only one who's moving on from his nearly decade long relationship with Kourtney.
Since their split, the raven-tressed beauty has been happily dating male model Younes Bendjima, 23. 
A new episode of Keeping Up With The Kardashians airs Sunday on E! 
How it's made! Busy as can be, Kris stopped by the Kylie Cosmetics factory for a surprise visit on Friday
Independent woman! She made the trip solo, not joined by daughter Kylie who gave birth to daughter Stormi Webster only a week ago
Busy as can be, Kris stopped by the Kylie Cosmetics factory on Friday.
She made the trip solo, not joined by daughter Kylie who gave birth to daughter Stormi Webster only a week ago. 
Sharing her trip on social media, the ex of Caitlyn - formerly known as Bruce - Jenner posed in front of rows of packaging while donning a lab-coat like jacket.
'Look who dropped by the Kylie Cosmetics factory today!' the makeup brand wrote while sharing a pic of Kris on their account. 
Keeping up with the Kardashians airs Sundays at 9pm on E! and is available to stream Mondays on hayu in the UK.
Weird science! Sharing her trip on social media, the ex of Caitlyn - formerly known as Bruce - Jenner posed in front of rows of packaging while donning a lab-coat like jacket
Read more:
