Intel at The Olympic Games
Ready for The Games
This is the future of The Olympic Games - where greatness is experienced in Intel® True VR, esports reaches a new world stage, drones take wonder to new heights, and 5G powers a connection that’s faster and stronger than ever. With Intel® technology, you’ll do more than just watch The Olympic Games, you’ll experience them.
Intel at the XXIII Olympic Winter Games
Intel® technologies1 are helping fans experience more moments in PyeongChang 2018.
5G Technology at the Olympic Winter Games PyeongChang 2018
Get ready to experience connectivity in 5G - faster, stronger, and closer than ever. Intel® processors help bring 5G to life at The Olympic Games with a showcase of real-world demos that will power everything from live cross country event viewing in the mountains, a connected car experience in downtown Seoul, to watching multiple camera angles with interactive, streaming HD video in the Ice Arena.
Learn more
PyeongChang 2018 in Virtual Reality
This winter, feel like you’re at The Olympic Games in PyeongChang from the comfort of your living room with Intel® True VR. Witness records broken, champions crowned, and legends forged in an immersive, live-streaming VR format that will change the way you experience The Olympic Games forever.
Learn more
Gaming in PyeongChang
A new kind of champion will be made, as Intel brings esports to PyeongChang ahead of the XXIII Olympic Winter Games. Witness the world’s best players compete on the ultimate world stage in the first stand-alone esports tournament of its kind.
Learn more
Drone Light Shows at The Olympic Games
This winter, entertainment experiences take flight. Intel brings the latest innovation and advancements in drone technology to South Korea to extend the magic of The Olympic Winter Games from the peaks of PyeongChang into the skies above.
Learn more
Are You VR Ready?
With Intel® True VR, you’ll be immersed in The Olympic Winter Games like never before. Learn how you can get VR ready in time for PyeongChang 2018.
