White House Chief of Staff Is a Longtime Defender of the Accused
By THOMAS GIBBONS-NEFF
Continue reading the main story
Photo
John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, at the White House last month. Credit Tom Brenner/The New York Times
In 2013, John F. Kelly, a general at the time, defended a junior Marine officer who was accused of poor leadership after going on patrol in Afghanistan with team members who urinated on the bodies of three dead Taliban militants. Two years later, in 2015, he stood up for a Marine colonel facing a litany of charges, including sexual harassment.
Now the White House chief of staff, Mr. Kelly has come to the defense of a subordinate, engulfing him in a Trump administration crisis that could lead to his own undoing.
When accusations surfaced this week that Rob Porter, the White House staff secretary, had physically abused his two former wives, Mr. Kelly described the aide as “a friend, a confidant and a trusted professional.” He later said that he was “shocked” by the allegations — which spurred the release of a photograph of one of Mr. Porter’s former wives with a black eye — and said, “there is no place for domestic violence in our society.”
Mr. Porter resigned on Wednesday.
Mr. Kelly did not personally know the Marine he defended in the 2013 investigation that focused on the 2011 desecration of the Taliban bodies. In an interview on Friday, James V. Clement, who was the captain facing charges, said Mr. Kelly must have seen something in his case that spurred him to step up.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
During the 2013 administrative hearing, Mr. Kelly blamed Mr. Clement’s commanders for the patrol; Mr. Clement himself was not aware that troops had urinated on the bodies or of a video that showed the scene and was posted on the internet months later.
Photo
Todd Shane Tomko, then a colonel, in 2014. Mr. Kelly stood up for Mr. Tomko a year later, when he faced a number of charges, including misconduct and sexual harassment. Credit U.S. Marine Corps
Mr. Clement was cleared of wrongdoing in the investigation. His lawyer in the case, John Dowd, is now President Trump’s personal lawyer and has been friends with Mr. Kelly for years.
In June 2015, Mr. Kelly spoke up again, this time to prevent Todd Shane Tomko, then a colonel, from being discharged from the Marine Corps. Mr. Tomko faced a litany of charges, including misconduct and sexual harassment.
In an administrative hearing before Mr. Tomko’s eventual court-martial, Mr. Kelly served as a character witness, joining the proceedings through a telephone call. During the call, the transcript of which was obtained by The New York Times, Mr. Kelly described Mr. Tomko as a “superb Marine officer.”
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
