Eagles DE Chris Long joins Twitter party ripping NBC's Cris Collinsworth
Kevin C. Cox / Getty Images
Philadelphia Eagles defensive end Chris Long celebrates a 41-33 victory over the New England Patriots in Super Bowl LII at U.S. Bank Stadium on February 4, 2018 in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Philadelphia Eagles defensive end Chris Long celebrates a 41-33 victory over the New England Patriots in Super Bowl LII at U.S. Bank Stadium on February 4, 2018 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. (Kevin C. Cox / Getty Images)
Stephanie Sigafoos Contact Reporter
NBC’s Cris Collinsworth was vilified on Twitter during and after Super Bowl LII over what many perceived as his blatant “bias” for the New England Patriots .
Now a member of the Philadelphia Eagles has joined in the public roasting of the network color analyst.
Late Monday night, Eagles defensive end Chris Long tweeted he was enjoying the rerun of the game on NFL Network. A short time later, he called out Collinsworth over his commentary.
“ Ertz takes 17 steps and Collinsworth says he thinks they have to overturn it,” Long tweeted, adding a string of laughing emojis to his text.
The tweet was in reference to Collinsworth’s questioning of the game-deciding touchdown, in which was a pass to Eagles tight end Zach Ertz ended when he took three steps and dove into the end zone, where the ball came loose.
Collinsworth threw up his hands in the booth at the time and declared, “I’m not even taking a guess.” Except he did take a guess, repeatedly. “As [Ertz] was rolling over, it looked like that's when the ball came out,” he said. “I think they have to overturn it."
The call stood, further sharpening the social media pitchforks that were already out.
The commentary came after Eagles fans were already calling for Collinsworth’s head when he repeatedly questioned Corey Clement’s third-quarter catch at the back of the end zone.
“I give up,” Collinsworth said at the time, insisting that the ball nestled in Clement’s arms appeared to move enough to be considered a bobble and not a true catch. “If that ball’s not loose in his arms when that last foot came down, I give up.”
The two incidents were not the only ones to draw the ire of Eagles fans, and it turned out Long wasn’t done his criticism either.
He also pointed out that Collinsworth incorrectly identified defensive coverage on a reverse by the New England Patriots.
“He (Collinsworth) also thought it’s my job to run with Tom Brady w QB wheel route on a reverse pass. Lmao,” said Long’s second tweet.
Collinsworth thought Long was in charge of covering Tom Brady on the trick play when Danny Amendola tossed the ball Brady's way and it was ultimately dropped.
“Imagine the pain we had to feel at home,” a fan replied to Long’s tweet, referencing the many who said they decided to just mute the television.
Another quipped , “Still not as bad as when [Collinsworth] said the game was as good as the halftime show.”
As of early Tuesday morning, Long’s tweets had a combined 20,000 ‘likes.’  But the main conclusion seemed to be wrapped up in one fan’s response.
“Chris Collinsworth just isn’t very good,” the fan tweeted . “But the Eagles are.”
