Sign the petition
Receive campaign updates from Win Without War.
Note: This petition is a project of Win Without War and MoveOn.org. By signing, you agree to receive email messages from Win Without War, MoveOn Political Action, and MoveOn Civic Action. You may unsubscribe at any time. [ privacy policy ]
Embed This petition
<iframe src="http://petitions.moveon.org/embed/widget.html?v=3&name=tell-dc-mayor-bowser" class="moveon-petition" id="petition-embed" width="300px" height="500px"></iframe>
Tell DC Mayor Bowser and DC Council: Stop Trump's War Parade
To be delivered to Muriel Bowser, Mayor of Washington, DC
Petition Statement
Trump plans a massive demonstration of military power in Washington, D.C. A war parade would be a waste of our taxpayer dollars, would not do anything to keep our country safe, and would not honor the men and women in uniform. Its entire purpose is to let Trump play dictator for a day, further eroding democracy, and pushing our country even closer to authoritarianism.
Trump's war parade must not be treated as normal. Prevent Trump from holding a dangerous war parade in Washington, D.C.
There are currently 223,675 signatures. NEW goal -  We need 225,000 signatures!
Petition Background
Trump just ordered plans to send tanks, troops, and guns down the streets of Washington, D.C. This is the kind of parade that dictators around the world use to try and intimidate their enemies and, more importantly, their own citizens. This is not democracy, and this is not American. Urge Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser to act immediately and shut down Trump’s war parade.
This is not democracy.
Urge Washington, D.C.'s Mayor Muriel Bowser and the DC Council to act immediately and shut down Trump's war parade by refusing to issue permits, allocate resources, or otherwise cooperate with such an outrageous idea.
Current petition signers
Loading...
Note: MoveOn Civic Action does not necessarily endorse the contents of petitions posted on this site. MoveOn Petitions is an open tool that anyone can use to post a petition advocating any point of view, so long as the petition does not violate our terms of service .
