Reno's David Wise goes for Olympic repeat in South Korea
by Alex Margulies
David Wise looks to defend gold medal in ski halfpipe at Winter Olympic Games (Courtesy: Lemaire Photo)
AA
Reno, Nev. (News 4 & Fox 11)  — 
As he enters competition at the Winter Olympic Games in South Korea, Reno's David Wise is at the top of his game.  Fresh off a first-place finish in ski halfpipe at the X Games, Wise now looks for a repeat of his performance from Sochi four years ago, when he won gold as the discipline was introduced to the Olympics for the very first time.
Born and raised in the Biggest Little City, Wise started on the slopes like many kids in the region, at Sky Tavern, the oldest and largest volunteer run ski school in the United States.
Now, he couldn't be more excited to represent his community, his family, and his hometown on the world stage.
Wise begins competition on Monday, February 19th at 8 p.m.   His event will be televised on NBC.  Finals are slated for Wednesday, February 21st with live coverage on NBC between 5-8:30 p.m. as well as 10:05 p.m. and 1:05 a.m.
His wife Alexandra, and their two children, Nayeli (6) and Malechi (3) will be among 20 friends and family making the trek to Pyeongchang.
WATCH the full story of David's journey of at the video above.
You can follow his journey through his social media accounts: Facebook , Twitter & Instagram
-----
David also announced the release of a new children's illustrated book that he wrote called "Very Bear and The Butterfly" , with inspiration stemming from his love for telling his children "daddy stories" created from his life and experiences.  You can pre-order the book now.
A few months ago, Wise also pledged that he will donate 10% of his future podium earnings to "One Leg Up On Life" a non-profit started by his sisters Christy and Jessica.  Their aim is to provide less than fortunate children with prosthetics.  For more information visit www.oneleguponlife.org .
This past summer, David taught News 4's Alex Margulies & Ryan Kern how to shoot a compound bow in his backyard archery range.  The sport has become a big hobby for Wise in the ski off-season.
In 2015, News 4's Ryan Kern profiled David's offseason training routine with long-time trainer Max McManus.
David and Alexandra partnered with Lemaire Photo to make a music video of a renewal of their wedding vows.  It's worth a watch!
Special thanks to Justin Burgan, Drew Lederer & Lemaire Photo for video and photo use on this story.
Unmute
