The Olympics are starting! I'm a total nerd about the Olympics, and I know I'm not alone. C-U has produced several Olympians over the years, and the Champaign County History Museum is taking this timely opportunity to highlight some of those athletes, in particular famed speed skaters Bonnie Blair and Katherine Reutter. Details below...sure to be a fun and informative way to make a local connection to the international event.
CHAMPAIGN, IL – The Champaign County History Museum is pleased to announce the opening of our latest exhibit “Going for Gold”. This temporary exhibit opened February 8, 2018, and will run through the end of April. The exhibit highlights Champaign County’s connections with the Winter Olympics including in-depth looks at the careers of Champaign natives Bonnie Blair and Katherine Reutter. The
exhibit features items donated and loaned from both Olympians including their medal-winning speed skates, opening ceremony and medal podium uniforms and other items associated with their success. The museum is located at 102 East University Avenue (NE corner of First Street and University Avenue)
and is open Thursday and Friday from 1:00 pm to 5:00 pm and Saturday and Sunday from 10:00 am – 5:00 pm.
The Champaign County History Museum is a volunteer, donor, and members supported 501c3 not-for-profit organization created to preserve, exhibit and interpret the history of Champaign County. Our home is the Historic Cattle Bank, the oldest commercial building in Champaign County. With over 20,000 objects in our collection, we turn to the community to help us care and preserve these objects
for future generations. We offer educational programming, historic walking tours, and onsite exhibits to bring the past to life. Learn more about our museum at www.champaigncountyhistory.org.
The SPlog is available to our community of readers and Editors to get the word out about upcoming shows, events, ideas, quick opinions, photos, videos, overheard quotes — anything really, provided that it doesn't break the law.
Smile Politely also allows businesses who advertise with the magazine to access the SPlog to promote most anything and everything that's going on with them in their world.
Ultimately, we monitor the SPlog closely, so if we don't post your submission, we'll get in touch with you and discuss why. If every submission got posted, well, things would get messy in a hurry. We hope you understand.
Editors' note: Smile Politely maintains the right to edit all SPlog entries for grammar, punctuation, and syntax, but will never change the meaning or content of any submissions.
(function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){(i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
