Former Manchester United midfielder Liam Miller dies aged 36
Celtic confirmed former midfielder Liam Miller has died from cancer at the age of 36.
10 Feb 2018, 05:29 IST
1.88K
Email
Liam Miller, in action for Celtic
Former Manchester United midfielder Liam Miller died of cancer at the age of 36, another of his old clubs, Celtic, announced.
Miller, who won 21 caps for the Republic of Ireland over a 16-year career, broke through at Celtic before he moved to Old Trafford in 2004.
It was reported in November that Miller was suffering with cancer, his former clubs rallying around him and his family.
Miller's death on Friday brought tributes from a number of his former clubs – including Leeds United, Hibernian and Sunderland.
"Everyone at Leeds United are deeply saddened to hear of the passing of former Leeds midfielder Liam Miller," the Championship club wrote. "Our thoughts are with his family and friends."
Everyone at #CelticFC is deeply saddened to hear of the passing of former midfielder Liam Miller. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends at this time.
RIP Liam, YNWA. pic.twitter.com/vMkT1CtJ2m
— Celtic Football Club (@CelticFC) February 9, 2018
Everyone at Leeds United are deeply saddened to hear of the passing of former #LUFC midfielder Liam Miller. Our thoughts are with his family and friends pic.twitter.com/4rtm5yOL1v
— Leeds United (@LUFC) February 9, 2018
We are saddened to hear this evening that former #SAFC midfielder Liam Miller has passed away. Our thoughts are with his family and friends at this time. pic.twitter.com/MQqL3x2acN
— Sunderland AFC  (@SunderlandAFC) February 9, 2018
We are incredibly saddened to hear of the passing of former Hibernian midfielder Liam Miller. Our thoughts are with his family and friends at this time. pic.twitter.com/XWURtc72M3
— Hibernian FC (@HibsOfficial) February 9, 2018
Absolutely devastated to hear of the passing of former team mate Liam Miller. With him not so long ago when with @PHXRisingFC against his @RealMonarchs . Just an amazing guy!! Thoughts and prays with his family 
— Peter Ramage (@peterramage83) February 9, 2018
Our thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of former Academy player, Liam Miller, who sadly passed away this evening. God Bless pic.twitter.com/EKFwNHw57p
