Feb 3, 2017, 1:27 PM ET
Reuters/Mike Blake
Part of a fence that runs along the US-Mexico border.
Building an impenetrable wall along the US-Mexican border,   ostensibly to keep out foreigners , is a key item on President Donald Trump's   campaign-promise checklist.
"I will build a great, great wall on our southern border, and I   will have Mexico pay for that wall. Mark my words," Trump said   during a campaign rally on June 16, 2015.
The president moved toward fulfilling that promise on Wednesday,   January 25, 2017, when he signed a new executive order aimed at doing just that.
The order tasks the secretary of the Department of Homeland   Security, a role currently filled by John Kelly, to "immediately   plan, design, and construct a physical wall along the southern   border, using appropriate materials and technology to most   effectively achieve complete operational control[.]"
If Secretary Kelly is seeking technological inspiration for the design of Trump's wall , however, we hope he doesn't go   rifling through the FBI's recently released dossier on Nikola   Tesla, a prolific Serbian-American inventor - an investigation   that, in a remarkable but purely coincidental twist, has a direct   connection to the Trump family.
Tesla is famous for coming up with alternating current, which   remains the world standard for delivering electricity. He also   devised the induction motor, electrical bolt-shooting Tesla coil,   and long-distance radio transmission (though he had his thunder   stolen by a rival).
But Tesla also spun his deep understanding and explorations of   electricity and radiation to dream up more nefarious inventions,   including a "death ray" he described to Time Magazine in 1934 , yet kept relatively quiet   about.
Pavel L Photo and Video/Shutterstock
Artists perform a show in Moscow using Tesla coils and protective suits.
The government did not forget this and was " vitally   interested " in Tesla's unpublished research during a time of   war and Soviet espionage. So after Tesla died in the New Yorker   Hotel the evening of January 7, 1943, "his papers [...] were   temporarily seized by the Department of Justice Alien Property   Custodian Office ('alien' in this case means 'foreigner,'   although Tesla was a US citizen)," according to the FBI .
Investigators and specialists examined the documents, recorded   them on microfilm, wrote up reports, and added the material to   their existing dossier on Tesla. The FBI waited decades to   declassify the papers, releasing 250 pages of them as early as 2011 .
But last September, the Bureau uploaded 64 new pages to its public file vault on Tesla ,   which we first heard about from Reddit user Pressrewind10 .
Page 62, in a report titled "NY 65-12290", is particularly   eyebrow-raising:
"TESLA's only military invention was a method to which he once   eluded but nevr [sic] fully described. This invention was a means   whereby an impenetrable [sic] 'wall of force' can be erected   around the United States' borders which would render helpless any   military attack. TESLA disclosed the existence of his plan in   1934 and stated he intended to present it to the Geneva   Conference but seldom referred to it afterward."
Wikimedia Commons (public domain)
A portrait of famed inventor Nikola Tesla at age 34.
Not much is publicly known about Tesla's impenetrable wall   research beyond this. The only other details are presumably the   ones he shared with New York Times writer William A. Lawrence,   which the newspaper published on September 22,   1940 :
"[Tesla] stands ready to divulge to the United States government   the secret of his 'teleforce,' of which he said, 'airplane motors   would be melted at a distance of 250 miles, so that an invisible   "Chinese Wall of Defense" would be built around the country   against any enemy attack by an enemy air force, no matter how   large.'
"This 'teleforce' is based on an entirely new principle of   physics, that 'no one has ever dreamed about,' different from the   principles embodied in the in his inventions relating to the   transmission of electrical power from a distance, for which he   has received a number of basic patents."
Coincidentally after Tesla died, none other than electrical   engineer and military technology researcher John G. Trump - President   Trump's "nuclear" uncle, as an April 2016 New Yorker article by Amy Davidson dubbed him -   was the person who examined Tesla's effects and reported his   findings to the FBI.
Per Davidson, and according to Margaret Cheney and Robert Uth's   book, " Tesla,   Master of Lightning ", John G. Trump told the Bureau:
"Tesla's 'thoughts and efforts during at least the past 15 years   were primarily of a speculative, philosophical, and somewhat   promotional character,' but 'did not include new, sound, workable   principles or methods for realizing such results.'"
Congressional Republicans have said President Trump's wall will   cost about $12 to $15 billion . However, analysts say a more   realistic price tag, given what is known so far about the scope   of the project, is likely to be about $25 billion .
We'll assume that slapping on some motor-melting teleforce fields   would change that figure substantially.
