MORE: 5 takeaways to remember from the 2018 Winter Olympics opening ceremony
At 22, she has the combination of talent, ambition and beauty that rival American ski star Lindsey Vonn and any other athlete vying for medals and global attention here.
At the Sochi Olympics in 2014, it might have seemed absurd when, after winning a gold medal in the slalom, Shiffrin dreamed aloud “of the next Olympics (and) winning five gold medals.” It’s still a long shot, but no one is in better position to pull it off here.
She confirmed Saturday she might compete in all five Alpine events — downhill, slalom, giant slalom, super-G and combined. Women’s competition begins Monday with the giant slalom.
She also acknowledged five events is incredibly ambitious.
Asked what she thought about the possibility of becoming the Michael Phelps of the Winter Olympics, Shiffrin demurred.
“You’re crazy,’’ she said. “He has, what, 23 medals?’’
Phelps actually has 28 Olympic medals, including 23 golds. Shiffrin, 10 years younger than the 32-year-old legendary American swimmer, has one Olympic medal, but also 41 World Cup victories.
She might be swimming upstream in a medal competition.
“I know it’s a comparison between sports, and I don’t think there’s a sport in the Winter Olympics where you can win 23 medals three or four Olympics,’’ she said. “But yeah, I could never imagine myself even in the same sentence as Michael Phelps.’’
But she routinely is mentioned in the same sentence as Vonn, the most decorated female skier ever, and part of a potent American one-two punch on the mountain. While Vonn’s knee injuries have led her to focus on the speed events, Shiffrin has continued to dominate the technical events while emerging as a potential downhill star, too.
Only four years ago, Shiffrin said, she had doubts about her potential to extend her mastery beyond the slalom, her signature event, and take on all-comers.
“In Sochi, I thought no way that I’ll ever be able to do that,’’ Shiffrin said. “It’s too much. I don’t have enough experience. I’m not a good enough skier. I’m going to be a slalom skier forever, and I’m never going to be able to do speed. 
“Now to be here and to know that I can actually excel at almost all of the events, that’s really cool.’’
 
