Sen. Chuck Schumer calls for Canyon of Heroes parade honoring veterans of Iraq, Afghanistan wars
Sen. Schumer calls for Canyon of Heroes parade for Iraq, Afghanistan vets
email
(From left to right) Sen. Charles Schumer; Vince McGowan, president of the United War Veterans Council of New York County; and Harvey Bagg, UWVC chairman, called  for a Canyon of Heroes parade for vets of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars Sunday.
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Sunday, April 13, 2014, 9:59 PM
They put their lives on the line. Now it’s time to welcome them home — the way only New York City can.
Soldiers of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars stood Sunday with Sen. Chuck Schumer to call for a ticker-tape parade along the historic Canyon of Heroes in lower Manhattan.
Schumer (D-N.Y.) says the Big Apple should host a bells-and-whistles procession to honor vets of the two post-9/11 campaigns.
“With the war in Afghanistan winding down, now is the time to keep with longstanding American tradition and kick off a campaign for the first New York City welcome home parade for troops that served in Iraq and Afghanistan,” Schumer said, flanked by vets of several wars on Broadway at the Bowling Green bull statue.
“With the completion of the Afghanistan combat mission expected at the end of this year, and with Iraq’s official end far behind us, it’s time for New York to stake its claim and for the Department of Defense to join in planning this welcome home celebration.”
Schumer said he secured Mayor de Blasio’s blessing Saturday.
Being a vet from New York City, this is a must.
“The brave men and women who have selflessly served our nation with courage and skill in Iraq and Afghanistan deserve a recognition for their sacrifice,” de Blasio said. “I stand with Senator Schumer in his call for a parade to honor our veteran heroes, and New York City would be proud to host this important event.”
The Department of Defense has said a parade should not occur until operations in Afghanistan are complete, Schumer says.
But the pol said the planning must begin right away. Schumer is seeking approval from the Defense Department for a parade featuring military brass, color guards, bands and flyovers.
“Even though there have been very divided views in America about Iraq and even Afghanistan, just about every American has treated our newest vets with the respect and acknowledgment they deserve,” he said.
“They risked their lives to protect us. They experienced trauma and tragedy along the way. ... We must show them we are forever in their debt,” Schumer added.
Apollo 11 astronauts Michael Collins, Edwin Aldrin Jr., and Neil A. Armstrong wave to welcoming New Yorkers during parade up lower Broadway on Aug. 13, 1969.
(Eddie Adams/AP)
A ticker-tape parade for 25,000 Vietnam War veterans moves through the Financial District as workers crowd the street on May 7, 1985.
(ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Thousands of Gulf War veterans are showered with ticker-tape as they march up Broadway Ave. during the Operation Welcome Home parade on June 10, 1991.
(TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP/Getty Images)
Adam Graves (far left) and Captain Mark Messier (sunglasses), with Ranger teammates, ride through the Canyon of Heroes on June 17, 1994, with the Stanley Cup held high.
(Keith Torrie)
He said it was “one of the most disgraceful chapters in our history” when the city waited 10 years, until 1985, before it held a parade for veterans of the Vietnam War.
Vets Fuqiang Chen, 28, and Orley Pacheco, 30, joined Schumer as he announced the parade push.
Chen said marching the same route as past American vets would mean the world to him.
“The emotion would be overwhelming,” Chen marveled.
“It would be something else to walk down the street and see all the people showing appreciation. It would be a feeling of awe.”
Chen, who immigrated to the United States from China when he was 9 and grew up in Chinatown, joined the Marine Corps Reserve in 2009 while he was a student at Borough of Manhattan Community College.
“I wanted to serve,” he said Sunday. “I’m an immigrant to this country — I wanted to give back.”
He served seven months in Helmand Province, Afghanistan, in 2011 and 2012, mostly as an engineer repairing air conditioners, generators and fuel pumps.
Pacheco, who grew up in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, was an active duty Marine from 2002 to 2007 and served in Iraq.
“Being a vet from New York City, this is a must,” he said. “We have to honor those who have sacrificed. We have to give back.”
