Kylie Jenner Will Reportedly Return to Social Media as a Mommy Blogger
by
Pinterest
Getty Images
Forget weekly installments of Keeping Up With the Kardashians, keeping up with Kylie Jenner ’s not-so-secret pregnancy is a full-time job in and of itself. Though the reality star has yet to even confirm (or deny) that she is pregnant, it is widely accepted that she is carrying boyfriend Travis Scott’s baby, due at any moment. While there are some surrogate truthers who believe that the youngest Jenner was actually the gestational carrier for big sis Kim Kardashian and Kanye West’s newest addition , some new information suggests that Jenner is definitely carrying her own spawn—and will soon use her new life event as a way to reinvent herself in the most unlikely of ways. Kylie Jenner, 20, will reportedly return to social media as a “mommy blogger.”
“As soon as the baby is born, she will make an announcement and introduce the baby to her fans. She will also address the fact that she went ‘dark’ on social media and in the public,” a source told Entertainment Tonight . “Yes, she will release a photo, and yes, she will acknowledge the baby. She’s excited to continue to be her authentic self, and that will soon mean being a mother and sharing that with her fans.” Jenner has been decidedly absent from every public-facing outlet, including her app, for several months, but perhaps the makeup maven is giving herself some time and space to reinvent her app for the mommy blog community? With tons of influencers like Chiara Ferragni of The Blonde Salad and Arielle Charnas of Something Navy experiencing a blogger baby boom—not to mention the fact that about half of the Kardashian/Jenner clan is either currently pregnant or just gave birth—Kylie is on trend.
So what has she been doing at home while preparing for her new life of Pinterest, baby food prep, and diapers? According to the source, she’s “living her best life,” naturally. “She has really enjoyed this time away from the spotlight. It’s the first time she can remember in her entire life not being followed by cameras and she’s just trying to enjoy this privacy.” (A sentiment that sources have emphasized many times before.) The source adds, “she’s definitely not going to deny that she’s had a baby or continue to evade questions about it all.” Though she faked out the entire world with a body double at CVS the day after baby Chicago West was born, we still wait with freshly updated Instagram feeds for Kylie’s official statement.
