Parrot outduels McMorris as all 4 Canadians reach slopestyle final
Tyler Nicholson, Sebastien Toutant complete the quartet
Feb 09, 10:11 PM ET
By Benjamin Blum, CBC Sports
Canadian snowboarder Max Parrot outduelled Mark McMorris in a high-flying exhibition, while a strong second run from Tyler Nicholson ensured that all four Canadian men qualified for the slopestyle final at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
The trio joined Sebastien Toutant, who qualified in the first heat, in Saturday's 8 p.m. ET final.
Parrot led the way with an 87.36-point second run to beat McMorris' 86.83 to qualify in first place for the second Olympic Games in a row. The 23-year-old Bromont, Que., native, who finished fifth in Sochi, was flawless in his two runs, capping off both with backside triple cork melons.
"I'm super happy to [have] landed both of my runs today," Parrot told CBC Sports' Perdita Felicien. "I cleaned up a couple of my tricks, went bigger [in the second run.]"
"I made it to the final and that's all we really want."
McMorris, who won slopestyle bronze at the sport's Sochi debut, is competing less than a year after sustaining life-threatening injuries during a backcountry snowboarding excursion. The 24-year-old from Regina punctuated both of his runs with backside triples.
The Regina native beat his first run score of 83.70 with 86.83 in his second men's slopestyle qualifying run. He advances to the final in second place overall.
"It went about as good as it could have gone, thinking back to four years ago every run came down to my last chance so it felt good to put the first one down and get to have fun and step up my score going into the last run," McMorris said after his second run.
The pair have consistently battled in both slopestyle and big air on the international circuits and have been  complimentary and critical of each other  in the past, with McMorris seemingly unfazed by placing second.
"It's just qualifications, more of a seeding round," he said. "It's not too big of a worry."
"We feed off each other for sure. When he does good then I want to do good and I am sure it is vice-versa for him," McMorris told Reuters
For now, both are resolved to regroup in time for the final. "I will go see my physio this afternoon because my legs are like Jell-O," Parrot said. "We've rode so much this week."
The following snowboarders qualified from the second heat:
Max Parrot, Canada (87.36)
Redmond Gerard, United States (82.55)
Staale Sandbech, Norway (82.13)
