Image copyright BorneBackCeaselessly
Image caption Jennifer Willoughby says she filed a protective order against Mr Porter
Mr Porter's ex-wives, Colbie Holderness and Jennifer Willoughby, both accuse him of physical and emotional abuse.
His first spouse, US government analyst Ms Holderness, said he kicked her on their 2003 honeymoon in the Canary Islands and punched her in the face a couple of years later on holiday in Florence, Italy.
Ms Willoughby says she was married to Mr Porter from 2009-13. The motivational speaker says she obtained a protective order against him in June 2010 after he punched the glass of the door at their Alexandria, Virginia, home.
Without naming him, she wrote about her experiences in a blog post entitled Why I Stayed .
Image copyright Colbie Holderness
Image caption Colbie Holderness alleged Mr Porter punched her in the face on holiday in Florence, Italy
A third woman who says she was Mr Porter's girlfriend contacted his ex-wives in 2016 with allegations of "repeated abuse", according to CNN.
The unnamed woman was reportedly seeking advice on how to leave Mr Porter, but said she was afraid of him.
Mr Porter said "these outrageous allegations are simply false".
What's the White House fallout?
Chief of Staff John Kelly had some knowledge of the accusations against his deputy.
The White House has denied reports that Mr Kelly offered his resignation over the matter.
The chief of staff initially called Mr Porter "a man of true integrity and honour" after the Daily Mail reported the ex-wives' allegations on Tuesday.
No longer all the president's men
Image copyright Reuters
Image caption White House communications director Hope Hicks' (C) handling of the controversy has reportedly displeased Mr Trump
He then released a new statement saying he was shocked by the claims and stressed domestic violence was unacceptable.
White House communications director Hope Hicks' handling of the controversy has reportedly displeased Mr Trump.
The 29-year-old aide has recently been in a relationship with Mr Porter, a Harvard graduate and former Oxford Rhodes Scholar.
Mr Trump was reportedly not consulted when Ms Hicks helped draft an initial statement defending Mr Porter.
'He wasn't happy until he had me all to himself'
Who knew what and when?
According to CBS News, Mr Porter approached White House Counsel Don McGahn in January 2017 to inform him his ex-wives might say unflattering things about him to background check investigators.
In June 2017, Mr Porter's preliminary file was sent from the FBI to the White House security office, containing the abuse allegations.
Image copyright Reuters
Image caption Mr Porter (L), White House chief economic adviser Gary Cohn (2nd L) and White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders
In November, Mr McGahn received a call from an ex-girlfriend of Mr Porter alleging physical violence by the aide.
Mr McGahn told the White House chief of staff there was an issue with Mr Porter's security clearance, although he was vague, reports CBS.
Mr Porter told Mr Kelly his ex-wives were saying false things about him.
A White House spokesman said on Thursday that Mr Kelly did not realise the extent of the claims until a photo of Ms Holderness' black eye emerged on Wednesday.
