Media playback is not supported on this device
Jamie Nicholls crashes out in second slopestyle qualification run
British snowboarder Jamie Nicholls failed to make the slopestyle final after falling in his second run, as day one of the 23rd Winter Olympics got under way in Pyeongchang.
Nicholls, the first Team GB athlete in action, gambled on a big jump following a low score of 71.56 in his first run.
"I was gutted to see 71," he told BBC Sport. "I wasn't happy with it."
Team-mates Billy Morgan and Rowan Coultas also fell in their second runs and failed to qualify, finishing 10th and 18th respectively in heat two.
Adam Rosen, who was born in the United States, is Britain's best-placed luger after two rounds of the men's singles. He is in 23rd and team-mate Rupert Staudinger, who was a Germany junior luger, is sat in 35th place. The pair have two more runs on Sunday.
California-born Briton Annika Taylor finished last out of 60 in the women's 7.5km + 7.5km skiathlon and South Shields' Amanda Lightfoot was 67th in the women's biathlon 7.5km sprint event.
Confused? Sport-by-sport guides
Day one medal events: Five
Sweden's Charlotte Kalla won the first gold medal of Pyeongchang 2018 and Norway's Marit Bjorgen took silver - her 11th Winter Olympics medal - to become the most decorated female Winter Olympian of all time
Hosts South Korea claimed their first gold as Lim Hyo-jun clinched the men's 1500m short-track title
Carlijn Achtereekte led a Dutch 1-2-3 in the 3,000m speed skating
Germany's Laura Dahlmeier secured gold in the women's biathlon 7.5km sprint
And another German, Andreas Wellinger, won gold in the men's normal hill ski jump
Other news headlines on day one
Media playback is not supported on this device
Competitors hit the wall in men's luge
The South Korean government has launched an investigation into a possible cyber attack during the opening ceremony. What organisers describe as non-critical parts of the internal systems went down 45 minutes before the ceremony began, affecting the phone and internet services, but it did not impact on the ceremony.
Cases of norovirus have risen to 139 but organisers claim the outbreak is under control.
Figure skater Yuna Kim, who lit the Olympic cauldron, said it was an "unforgettable experience". Speaking in Korean she revealed she had been nervous because there had only been one rehearsal and she was worried about falling over.
The spectacular sight of 1,218 drones forming the Olympic rings during the opening ceremony was pre-recorded.
This evening's BBC coverage
Media playback is not supported on this device
The Winter Olympics - where sport, science and humanity collide
The Games Today - 19:00-20:00, BBC Two and online (19:30-20:30, BBC Two NI)
Olympics Extra - 20:00-21:00, BBC Four and online
Day two live coverage - 23:50-06:00, BBC One and online (01:20-02:00, BBC One Scotland)
Photos of the day
Ecstacy for Lim Hyo-jun, who crosses the line first to win the men's 1500m short-track title and earn South Korea its first gold of the Games
But there was heartache for British short-track star Charlotte Gilmartin (bottom right), who was disqualified for causing a crash during her 500m heat
Canada's Max Parrot gets a lot of air during the men's slopestyle - he scored the most points during qualifying
Is this the cricket? No. It was cheerleaders during the unified Korean women's ice hockey team's first match of the Games - they lost 8-0 to Switzerland
