Share
It's always fun to watch all the nations march into the Olympics Opening Ceremony. Yes, because it can be a beautiful time of unity and national pride, but also because there is always some standout moment during the march. And this year, Jamaica's joyful entrance was the moment that totally stole the show. Check out video of Jamaica's Olympics opening ceremony entrance for yourself below, and just try not to feel the love.
Anyone who has seen the classic, iconic, amazing 1993 Disney movie Cool Runnings already knows all too well just how exciting the Winter Olympics are for Jamaica. The island nation has been a fierce competitor in the Summer Olympic games since 1948, but due to the country's famously balmy temperature, it took them much longer to produce athletes for the Winter Olympics. It wasn't until 1988 that Jamaica first showed up at the Winter Olympics, thanks largely to a persistent bobsled team.
Clearly, the Winter Olympics still mean a great deal to Jamaica, as anyone who watched the 2018 Olympics opening ceremony in PyeongChang, South Korea could plainly see when the country's team walked out. Team Jamaica brought some much needed lighthearted fun to the opening ceremony, choosing to dance out into the stadium rather than just walk. Check out the video of Team Jamaica dancing their way into the 2018 Winter Olympics opening ceremony below:
Right after Team Jamaica entered with that fun-filled dance, they won over pretty much everyone on Twitter. Viewers from all over the globe commented on how much they loved Jamaica's dance-y entrance, which stood out from most of the other athletes, who just walked across the stadium and waved. Check out the best reactions to Jamaica's joyous entrance at the PyeongChang Olympics below:
Although Team Jamaica only has a few competitors participating in this year's Winter Olympics relative to other countries, they still totally shut it down with that awesome dance, and definitely do not seem intimidated by their team's smaller size whatsoever. Jamaica is only competing in two events at the PyeongChang Winter Olympics this year, and only has three athletes representing the country for 2018. Jazmine Fenlator-Victorian and Carrie Russell will compete for Jamaica in the two-women bobsled competition, and Anthony Watson is competing for the country in Men's Skeleton.
As usual, the opening ceremony entrance denoted the vast difference in size between Jamaica's Winter Olympics team and their Summer Olympics team. Compared to the three athletes competing in the 2018 Winter Olympics, Jamaica had 56 competitors represented the county in the recent 2016 Summer Olympic games in Rio de Janeiro.
Although Jamaica dominates at the Summer Olympics, particularly in running events, the country has yet to ever take home a medal at the Winter Olympics. Overall, Jamaica boasts an impressive 22 gold medals, 35 silver medals, and 20 bronze medals, adding up to 77 Olympic medals in total for the country. However, although Jamaica has been represented in seven Winter Olympics over the past three decades, all of those Olympic medals were won at various Summer Olympics. If Jamaica does manage to snag a spot on the podium this year, it would mark the country's first ever Olympic medal won at a Winter Olympics. Maybe that prospect of winning the first Winter Olympic medal for their country ever was why those Jamaican athletes were dancing so much when they showed up in PyeongChang!
Now, I know I am definitely rooting for Jamaica to get at least one medal this year! If you are too, you can be sure to check out the two events that Jamaica is competing in: two-women bobsled and men's skeleton.
