I’ve never played for a draw in my life. ~ Sir Alex Ferguson
1. It is quite simple
football is a very easy sport to learn and play. Looking from the outside, it might seem really hard and confusing, but when you start learning, it is not that hard. football involves a ball and a human. There are other rules and complex technicalities involved, but, with time, you would be able to understand them
2. football video games
I love football to the extent I go out of my way to buy the video games for the sport. There is a popular football video game called FIFA. I have been playing FIFA since 2005. It is really fun, exciting, and competitive. I love playing FIFA and it has cured me of many things, funny enough. For example, there was a time I was really sick and I played FIFA with my friend on his PlayStation 4 for hours, and at the end I felt a lot better. I used FIFA to relieve stress because it helps me relax.
3. It is very educating
I have learned so much from football throughout the years. The things I have learn through football, I don’t think I would have learned them anywhere else. For example, through football, I know almost all the countries and cities in them. I know places like Zurich, Leicester, Liverpool, Munich, and Shrewsbury. I know these places because when you watch football, especially European football, you get to listen to a lot of analytical thought on teams that come from these places. Also, through football, I was able to score higher on my SAT. Listening to experienced commentators during the football matches also helped improve my vocabulary, and during my SAT, a question appeared about a word I heard a commentator use in a match the week before.
4. It is fun and brings people together
There are many instances where football was used for peace. In my country, Nigeria, football is a very popular sport and it is played and watched everywhere.
FOOTBALL BY VIDEO is a website dedicated to Football Lovers. Our staff works day and night to bring you only quality videos that you will love and find interesting. Enjoy!
Staff Picks
Football Emotions - It's all about Respect
Football Emotions - It's all about Respect
