Man who helped desegregate university has died
Y'all Asked - 'Black Panther'
Safe Baby Haven: Distraught mother drops off 2 children at Phoenix fire station
Photos
Damage and recovery in Puerto Rico
Evacuations from Dominica after hurricane
Redskins, Raiders protest during national anthem
© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Fox Television Stations, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
California lawmakers introduce 'Safe Youth Football Act' by setting minimum age for tackle football
Posted: Feb 09 2018 08:32AM CST
Video Posted: Feb 09 2018 10:05PM CST
Updated: Feb 09 2018 10:50PM CST
[  ] Hide Caption [  ] Show Caption
FILE ART: Children play flag football. Photo: Getty Images
SACRAMENTO - Just days after the Super Bowl, two California lawmakers announced a bill to prevent minors from playing organized tackle football before high school.
“The Superbowl may be over, but the risk of brain injury to kids who play tackle football remains,” said Assembly members Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento), a co-author of the bill. “The Golden State’s children need to know that no touchdown or interception is worth long-term damage to their brains caused by tackle football.” 
The Superbowl may be over, but the risk of brain injury to kids who play tackle football remains. We have an obligation to protect children from long-term injuries resulting from tackle football, especially brain trauma. W/ @LorenaSGonzalez @bennetomalu9168 pic.twitter.com/4OYJXMsE2y
— Asm. Kevin McCarty (@AsmKevinMcCarty) February 9, 2018
McCarty and  co-author Lorena Gonzalez Fletcher (D-San Diego) unveiled on Thursday the “Safe Youth Football Act,” that would set a minimum age statewide to play organized tackle football. The bill did not specifically state what age, but other states have proposed 12 years old.
Many middle and elementary schools already practice this: For instance, in Oakland, 6th- 7th- and 8th graders in public school play flag football only.
California would be the fourth state to consider a minimum age for youth tackle football. Lawmakers in Illinois introduced a similar bill in January, called the Dave Duerson Act, named after the  Chicago Bears defensive back who was diagnosed with chronic traumatic encephalopathy after he killed himself at the age of 50. Duerson shot himself in the chest so his brain could be studied for signs of the disease that has been linked to concussions or repeated head trauma. New York and Maryland also have similar proposals pending.
The California lawmakers said they were following advice of medical professionals who believe limiting tackle football would help prevent young athletes from sustaining long-term brain damage caused by repetitive tackling, hitting and blocking.
“The science is clear: head injuries sustained at a young age can harm kids for the rest of their lives,” Gonzalez Fletcher said in a statement. “Developing skills through flag football before high school is sound public policy from a health and safety standpoint.”
She cited studies have shown that Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy is caused by repetitive impacts to the head sustained over a period of time. She said children who play contact sports during their most critical years of brain development are at a significantly greater risk for neurological impairments and CTE later in life.
CTE is a degenerative disease known to cause memory loss, violent moods and other cognitive difficulties in football players, members of the military and others who have endured repeated head trauma. It can only be diagnosed after death. Researchers believe the severity of the symptoms is increased for those who began playing football at a younger age.
After years of denials, the NFL has acknowledged a link between head blows and brain disease and agreed in 2015 to a $1 billion settlement with former players.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
false
