Donald Trump Jr. loves far-right internet trolls — and they love him back
The president’s son has used Twitter to promote media trolls and conspiracy theorists
Jared Holt , Media Matters2017-07-13T10:00:33Z•2017-07-13T10:00:33Z
This article originally appeared on Media Matters .
Donald Trump Jr., son of President Donald Trump, frequently uses his prominence on Twitter and proximity to the White House to promote right-wing media trolls who defend his father and smear mainstream media.
Key voices in the incestuous right-wing  alternative media ecosystem  have found an ally in the younger Trump, who often retweets and favorites tweets from the echo chamber’s loudest voices, and who is  rumored  to serve as a White House source to at least one far-right personality. Like the far-right trolls he expresses admiration for, Trump spends his time on Twitter  spreading  debunked conspiracy theories,  smearing  mainstream media outlets,  promoting  bogus “alt-right” videos, and  amplifying  messages with white nationalist undertones. Trump’s behavior, in effect, validates the larger alternative media ecosystem and attempts to bring the fringe worldview into the mainstream.
Mike Cernovich
Trump has repeatedly indicated an affinity for right-wing troll and Infowars contributor Mike Cernovich. Cernovich gained notoriety during the 2016 election for promoting  fake   conspiracy   theories  such as the “Pizzagate” narrative, accusing Democratic officials of operating a child sex trafficking ring in the basement of a Washington, D.C., pizzeria. Infowars’ Alex Jones told his audience that the president’s "sons, especially Donald Jr.,"  are Cernovich’s sources  on White House affairs. And earlier this year, Trump claimed that “in a long gone time of unbiased journalism” Cernovich would “win the Pulitzer” prize for his  faux scandal story  that alleged Susan Rice, who served as national security adviser to then-President Barack Obama, was responsible for improper unmasking of Trump associates caught in surveillance of foreign officials.
Congrats to @Cernovich for breaking the #SusanRice story. In a long gone time of unbiased journalism he'd win the Pulitzer, but not today!
— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) April 4, 2017
Stefan Molyneux
The younger Trump also  frequently   retweets  Stefan Molyneaux, a prominent far-right blogger who  promotes  right-wing trolls and conspiracy theories about “ globalism .” Trump closely follows Molyneaux, boosting many of his tweets and favoriting  one  that featured a depiction of CNN reporter Andrew Kaczynski in a Nazi uniform.
Infowars’ Alex Jones and Paul Joseph Watson
Infowars’ top conspiracy peddlers, Paul Joseph Watson and Alex Jones, also have Trump’s attention. During the 2016 election, Trump  shared an Infowars article  that falsely accused Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton of wearing an earpiece during the first presidential debate. Trump has also  liked tweets  from Watson and recently  attacked CNN  while Infowars was pushing a “meme war” against the network.
4chan
While he was  sharing anti-CNN memes , Trump also favorited a  tweet  from a Twitter account connected to the internet cesspool known as 4chan’s “politically incorrect” message board (/pol/). The tweet contained a list of companies that advertise on CNN and encouraged people to tweet at the companies and ask them to stop advertising on the network. Alongside far-right ideologies, the board often features anti-Semitic, racist, sexist, homophobic, and white nationalist content.
Jack Posobiec
Trump also promotes right-wing troll Jack Posobiec on Twitter. Posobiec’s  publicity stunts  and  bogus talking points  have duped mainstream media sources and public officials. On July 8, Trump  shared a video  Posobiec posted that depicted protesters setting fires in Germany in response to the G-20 summit. Posobiec is a media troll who got “ temporary White House credentials ” to attend the press briefings. He is responsible for peddling hacked emails that were likely sourced from Russia, spreading the “Pizzagate” conspiracy, and orchestrating smear campaigns against people who opposed the senior Trump.
Trump’s affinity for these far-right media personalities and his active promotion of their half-baked theories about the day’s news validates the alternative media ecosystem to its audience and furthers the far-right’s attempt to delegitimize longstanding journalistic institutions. By emulating and affirming these fringe figures, Trump furthers his father’s  disdain for the press  and stokes public distrust of legitimate news outlets.
