Close
Image 1 of 16
TOPSHOT - Nigeria's women's bobsleigh and skeleton team members Seun Adigun, Ngozi Onwumere, Akuoma Omeoga and Simidele Adeagbo attend a welcoming ceremony for the team in the Olympic Village in Pyeongchang ahead of the Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games on February 6, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / LOIC VENANCELOIC VENANCE/AFP/Getty Images less
TOPSHOT - Nigeria's women's bobsleigh and skeleton team members Seun Adigun, Ngozi Onwumere, Akuoma Omeoga and Simidele Adeagbo attend a welcoming ceremony for the team in the Olympic Village in Pyeongchang ... more
Photo: LOIC VENANCE, Contributor
Image 2 of 16
PYEONGCHANG-GUN, SOUTH KOREA - FEBRUARY 08: Seun Adigun of Nigeria drives during a training session in the Women's Bobsleigh previews ahead of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympic Games at the Olympic Sliding Centre on February 8, 2018 in Pyeongchang-gun, South Korea.  (Photo by Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images) less
PYEONGCHANG-GUN, SOUTH KOREA - FEBRUARY 08: Seun Adigun of Nigeria drives during a training session in the Women's Bobsleigh previews ahead of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympic Games at the Olympic Sliding ... more
Photo: Sean M. Haffey, Staff
Image 3 of 16
Nigeria's team leader and driver Moriam Seun Adigun takes a turn in the first women's unofficial bobsleigh training session at the Olympic Sliding Centre, during the Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games in Pyeongchang on February 7, 2018.  / AFP PHOTO / Kirill KUDRYAVTSEVKIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV/AFP/Getty Images less
Nigeria's team leader and driver Moriam Seun Adigun takes a turn in the first women's unofficial bobsleigh training session at the Olympic Sliding Centre, during the Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games in ... more
Photo: KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV, Contributor
Image 4 of 16
Team leader and driver Seun Adigun, a former track star from the University of Houston, guides the Nigerian bobsled during the a training session in Pyeongchang on Wednesday.﻿
Team leader and driver Seun Adigun, a former track star from the University of Houston, guides the Nigerian bobsled during the a training session in Pyeongchang on Wednesday.﻿
Photo: MARK RALSTON, Contributor
Image 5 of 16
Team leader and driver Seun Adigun of Nigeria take a turn during the first unofficial bobsleigh women training session at the Olympic Sliding Centre ahead of the Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games in Pyeongchang on February 7, 2018.  / AFP PHOTO / Mohd RASFANMOHD RASFAN/AFP/Getty Images less
Team leader and driver Seun Adigun of Nigeria take a turn during the first unofficial bobsleigh women training session at the Olympic Sliding Centre ahead of the Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games in ... more
Photo: MOHD RASFAN, Contributor
Image 6 of 16
Akuoma Omeoga, from left, Simidele Adeagbo, Ngozi Onwumere and Seun Adigun of the Nigerian Olympic Team pose for photographs before a welcome ceremony inside the Pyeongchang Olympic Village prior to the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, Tuesday, Feb. 6, 2018. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) less
Akuoma Omeoga, from left, Simidele Adeagbo, Ngozi Onwumere and Seun Adigun of the Nigerian Olympic Team pose for photographs before a welcome ceremony inside the Pyeongchang Olympic Village prior to the 2018 ... more
Photo: Patrick Semansky, STF
Image 7 of 16
Seun Adigun makes her entrance at a social event in Lagos, Nigeria on February 2, 2018. Seun Adigun, Akuoma Omeoga and Ngozi Onwumere will be the first ever Nigerian team at the Winter Olympics when the compete at the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea.  / AFP PHOTO / Stefan HEUNISSTEFAN HEUNIS/AFP/Getty Images less
Seun Adigun makes her entrance at a social event in Lagos, Nigeria on February 2, 2018. Seun Adigun, Akuoma Omeoga and Ngozi Onwumere will be the first ever Nigerian team at the Winter Olympics when the compete ... more
Photo: STEFAN HEUNIS, Contributor
Image 8 of 16
(L-R): Seun Adigun , Ngozi Onwumere), Akuoma Omeoga, and Simidele Adeagbo dance on stage at a social event in Lagos, Nigeria on February 2, 2016. The ladies will represent Nigeria at the Winter Olympics when the compete at the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea. The ladies will represent Nigeria at the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea. / AFP PHOTO / Stefan HEUNISSTEFAN HEUNIS/AFP/Getty Images less
(L-R): Seun Adigun , Ngozi Onwumere), Akuoma Omeoga, and Simidele Adeagbo dance on stage at a social event in Lagos, Nigeria on February 2, 2016. The ladies will represent Nigeria at the Winter Olympics when ... more
Photo: STEFAN HEUNIS, Contributor
Image 9 of 16
Seun Adigun holds the Nigerian national flag during the national anthem at a social event in Lagos, Nigeria on February 2, 2018. Seun Adigun, Akuoma Omeoga and Ngozi Onwumere will be the first ever Nigerian team at the Winter Olympics when the compete at the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea.  / AFP PHOTO / Stefan HEUNISSTEFAN HEUNIS/AFP/Getty Images less
Seun Adigun holds the Nigerian national flag during the national anthem at a social event in Lagos, Nigeria on February 2, 2018. Seun Adigun, Akuoma Omeoga and Ngozi Onwumere will be the first ever Nigerian ... more
Photo: STEFAN HEUNIS, Contributor
Image 10 of 16
﻿From left, Nigerian boblsedders Akuoma Omeoga, Seun Adigun and Ngozi Onwumere ﻿will field the first bobsled team from the ﻿continent of Africa in Pyeongchang.﻿
﻿From left, Nigerian boblsedders Akuoma Omeoga, Seun Adigun and Ngozi Onwumere ﻿will field the first bobsled team from the ﻿continent of Africa in Pyeongchang.﻿
Photo: HONS
Image 11 of 16
In this Dec. 7, 2017 image take from video, Nigerian boblsedders, from left, Ngozi Onwumere, Akuoma Omeoga and Seun Adigun play with fake snow during a media event in New York. The trio will represent Nigeria as the country fields its first-ever bobsled team at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. The team is also a first, men's or women's, for the entire continent of Africa. (AP Photo) less
In this Dec. 7, 2017 image take from video, Nigerian boblsedders, from left, Ngozi Onwumere, Akuoma Omeoga and Seun Adigun play with fake snow during a media event in New York. The trio will represent Nigeria ... more
Photo: STF
Image 12 of 16
In this Dec. 7, 2017 image take from video, Nigerian boblsedder Seun Adigun, right, speaks as teammates Ngozi Onwumere, left, and Akuoma Omeoga listen during an interview in New York. The trio will represent Nigeria as the country fields its first-ever bobsled team at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. The team is also a first, men's or women's, for the entire continent of Africa. (AP Photo) less
In this Dec. 7, 2017 image take from video, Nigerian boblsedder Seun Adigun, right, speaks as teammates Ngozi Onwumere, left, and Akuoma Omeoga listen during an interview in New York. The trio will represent ... more
Photo: STF
Image 13 of 16
Seun Adigun women's 100m Hurdles Athletics- Day 10 at the Olympic Stadium, during the 2012 London Olympic Games. (Photo by Christopher Morris/Corbis via Getty Images)
Seun Adigun women's 100m Hurdles Athletics- Day 10 at the Olympic Stadium, during the 2012 London Olympic Games. (Photo by Christopher Morris/Corbis via Getty Images)
Photo: Christopher Morris, Contributor
Image 14 of 16
Seun Adigun photographed at the University of Houston on Monday, July 9, 2012. Adigun, a former UH sprinter and current assistant UH track coach, will compete in the women's 100m hurdles for Nigeria. ( Smiley N. Pool / Houston Chronicle) less
Seun Adigun photographed at the University of Houston on Monday, July 9, 2012. Adigun, a former UH sprinter and current assistant UH track coach, will compete in the women's 100m hurdles for Nigeria. ( Smiley ... more
Photo: Smiley N. Pool, Staff
Image 15 of 16
Seun Adigun photographed at the University of Houston on Monday, July 9, 2012. Adigun, a former UH sprinter and current assistant UH track coach, will compete in the women's 100m hurdles for Nigeria. ( Smiley N. Pool / Houston Chronicle) less
Seun Adigun photographed at the University of Houston on Monday, July 9, 2012. Adigun, a former UH sprinter and current assistant UH track coach, will compete in the women's 100m hurdles for Nigeria. ( Smiley ... more
Photo: Smiley N. Pool, Staff
Image 16 of 16
Seun Adigun photographed at the University of Houston on Monday, July 9, 2012. Adigun, a former UH sprinter and current assistant UH track coach, will compete in the women's 100m hurdles for Nigeria. ( Smiley N. Pool / Houston Chronicle) less
Seun Adigun photographed at the University of Houston on Monday, July 9, 2012. Adigun, a former UH sprinter and current assistant UH track coach, will compete in the women's 100m hurdles for Nigeria. ( Smiley ... more
Photo: Smiley N. Pool, Staff
Former UH sprinter leads Nigerian women's bobsled team
1 / 16
Back to Gallery
The doors to the plane were about to close and the flight attendant was reminding passengers to get settled.
Seun Adigun was attempting to finish a quick phone call and it just wasn't working. Too much going on. Too loud. Too many people. Too many distractions.
Most Popular
