WATCH: Trey Gowdy Relives Top 'Grillings' of Bureaucrats on Capitol Hill
Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Thursday the mainstream media is hiding the text messages between FBI officials Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, arguing the anti-Trump messages keep getting worse. 
Strzok and Page, who were involved in an extramarital affair, exchanged more than 50,000 texts during the presidential campaign, transition and first months of the Trump presidency.
On Election Day 2016, Page wrote, "OMG THIS IS F***ING TERRIFYING." Strzok replied, "Omg, I am so depressed."
Later that month, on Nov. 13, 2016, Page wrote, "I bought all the president's men. Figure I need to brush up on watergate." 
NEW FBI TEXTS ARE BOMBSHELLS!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 7, 2018
The next day, Nov. 14, 2016, Page wrote, “God, being here makes me angry. Lots of high fallutin’ national security talk. Meanwhile we have OUR task ahead of us.”
It is unclear what "OUR task" referred to, but Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) suggested it could be related to a text Strzok sent in August alluding to an "insurance policy" in case Trump won the presidency.
What You Need to Know About Strzok, Page and the FBI Texting Scandal
In another message, Page wrote to Strzok about preparing talking points for then-FBI Director James Comey because "potus wants to know everything." It's unclear what the message was referring to, but Gingrich said he had not previously heard about Comey briefing Obama. 
Having lived through the unraveling of Watergate (I was candidate for Congress) recent text messages are amazing—how does media hide
— Newt Gingrich (@newtgingrich) February 7, 2018
He questioned whether it had anything to do with "an effort to stop Trump," arguing it raises questions about Comey's past statements. 
"These text messages are to this scandal what the tapes were in 1973 to Watergate. I use the word 'unraveling' because they lead you to places you couldn't imagine and they make you raise questions you'd never thought of and it just gets steadily worse," he said on "America's Newsroom."
