Kiszla: Tarnished gold? Shaun White on defensive about sexual misconduct allegations, bad flag etiquette.
PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — How cool would it be to own an Olympic gold medal? I’d look at it every day, and be tempted to wear it everywhere from the shower to the Department of Motor Vehicles. Wouldn’t you?
So I had to ask U.S. ski champion Mikaela Shiffrin : Where do you keep your medals from all the big races you’ve won?
“I put them in socks,” Shiffrin said.
Stuck in socks? Inside a drawer? You mean there’s an Olympic gold medal back home in EagleVail, just hanging out with the T-shirts?  Really?
“You put it in a sock and it keeps it kinda safe,” said Shiffrin, laughing at the thought of her Olympic medal, all alone in a dark corner of a dresser drawer. “I’m not going to tell you the exact location, in case you want to go into my house and steal it.”
Shiffrin hordes gold and silver. She is the Brink’s Truck of the ski hill. Bulletproof. Loaded with precious metal and fine crystal. At age 22, Shiffrin has already collected Olympic gold from a slalom victory in Russia four years ago, not to mention enough World Cup globes to open a museum.
Let’s Talk Olympics
Do you love watching the Olympics? Come talk about the Games with us on our exclusive Facebook group .
But the prize ain’t the thing that makes Shriffin go fast on skis. She’s a shark on the snow. It’s all about the hunt.
“I don’t have my Olympic medal from Sochi on display,” she said. “I did hang up my world championship medals in my room, but more because I had dead space on my wall and I wanted to fill it up with something.”
With a no-big-deal shrug, Shiffrin reveals a ton. At the Winter Games, she is trying to make history. Go faster and win bigger than even the world’s best skiers dare to dream. It could be daunting if Shiffrin regarded every medal won or lost here as valuable as a crown jewel, rather than a knickknack to nail on her bedroom wall.
For the past 10 days, Shiffrin has rolled out of bed every morning in South Korea, buckled up the boots, clicked into her bindings and tested her limits, trying to gauge if competing in the five race disciplines of slalom, giant slalom, super G, downhill and combined represents a real chance to become the Michael Phelps of the Winter Games, or if it’s a crazy, dangerously draining stunt so foolhardy it tempts a high-speed crash and a trip off the mountain in the medial toboggan.
PyeongChang current time
“I can never imagine myself in the same sentence as Michael Phelps. It’s extremely flattering. But it’s apples and oranges,” said Shiffrin, admitting less than 100 percent certainty whether she will chase medals in two events or many more. Her Olympic plan will evolve, depending on how well Shiffrin holds up physically and mentally as competition during the Games unfolds.
We are dazzled by gold, because we are human, and the magical glow of precious metal entrances us. But, for Shiffrin, the joy of skiing is found in executing that perfect turn on a knife’s edge, over snow as hard as concrete, either through the sticky wicket of slalom gates or at speeds in excess of 75 miles per hour on a downhill course.
Get it? Shiffrin is not your normal human. She’s a snow shark. When watching her in the start gate, eager to devour the mountain under her skis, I hear the theme from “Jaws.”
So maybe Shiffrin looks at gold, silver and bronze differently than you or I might.
“I want to medal in multiple disciplines,” Shiffrin said.
Time to go to work.
How many Olympic medals could she win? Here in South Korea, it could be one or two or even more.
Shiffrin is here to sock ’em away.
Tags: 
