Q&A: Gridiron Club President Don Kile's vision to save Phoenix-area community college football
Richard Obert , azcentral sports Published 4:20 p.m. MT Feb. 9, 2018
Don Kile
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
After the Maricopa County Community College District announced this week that it was going to eliminate football after the 2018 season at its four schools -- Mesa, Glendale, Scottsdale and Phoenix -- Don Kile, president of the Grand Canyon State Gridiron Club quickly went to work to propose a plan on how it can be saved beyond next year.
Kile answered some questions from azcentral sports on the Gridiron Club's strategy:
Has anybody from MCCCD been receptive to your proposal?
"Yes. The immediate and appropriate response was a simple acknowledgement that they received our proposal and a confirmation of their appreciation for our interest in opening a meaningful dialogue."
Have they gotten back to you to show their willingness to listen?
"They have confirmed that they are meeting internally and reviewing the proposal. That is an encouraging indication that they are open to the Gridiron Club’s proposal."
When will you meet with them?
"I know the community is eager to hear good news but this is a set of highly complicated issues. We all need to be very patient while Chancellor (Maria) Harper-Marinick and the Governing Board review our proposal and prepare for a meeting. We are ready to meet as soon as possible. Time is of the essence.
"This is a complicated set of circumstances and there is a lot more at stake here than a group of 300 junior college football players and their educational aspirations that ride on their ability to trade talent, hard work and tuition money for an Associate (Arts) degree at an outstanding community college. The district recognizes the complex issues and our interest in resolving them with a private funding model. We respect the difficult decision they made to eliminate district-sponsored funding for the football programs at these four schools. We are confident a meeting will be scheduled when they are fully prepared."
What is the gain you guys get by doing this?
"That is a good question. The Grand Canyon State Gridiron Club is the state’s leading advocate for grassroots amateur football. The Gridiron Club’s mission is to bring national attention to the extraordinary qualities of our young people. We believe that high school and junior college athletic programs, including football, are an integral part of the fabric of our community. High school and junior college football make significant contributions in many ways: economically, educationally and socially.
"The better question would be: What does the community gain by the Gridiron Club leading an effort to shift the financial and operational risk burdens to a private funding model? The community gets a better product. The community wins when valuable 'quality of life' assets are maintained."
Mesa Community College participated in the 2017 Valley of the Sun Bowl at MCC on Dec. 2, 2017.
 (Photo: Tom Tingle/azcentral sports)
What is the main impetus for doing this?
"The Gridiron Club believes strongly in the merits and benefits of high school and junior college football in Arizona and the affirmative impact a successful athletic program can have on a campus environment and the community it serves. The Gridiron Club believes in a comprehensive community college system.
"The district made a difficult decision to eliminate the district-sponsored funding for all four football programs within the district. I understand the decision, the basis from which it was rendered, and frankly, I agree with the foundational truth the MCCCD is charged with the responsible deployment of the district’s financial resources and the public trust from which they are derived.
"Does this mean that the programs should be eliminated? I don’t believe eliminating the football programs is necessary. You don’t just throw away a perfectly good automobile because you don’t understand how to put gas in the tank and don’t like the insurance costs.
"Junior college football is a valuable asset in this community. Put the asset into the hands of someone who knows how to fill the tank, isn’t afraid of the insurance costs, and is fully capable of driving it effectively.
"The governing board voted correctly to eliminate the district funding for the programs. It was the right decision for the good of the greater MCCCD mission. I believe the next right decision will be to allow for the replacement of the district-sponsored funding model with a private funding model allowing the programs to remain in place.
"What was the impetus that inspired our immediate involvement? Simple. The impetus was the district’s decision to eliminate funding for the programs. The matter before us is not the elimination of football programs at these four schools. It is the elimination of district-sponsored financial support for the programs. We plan to win-win this matter. The district eliminates funding sponsorship and we maintain the programs through private funding through a combination of business funding, community philanthropy, commercial product placement, and naming-rights sponsorships."
What needs to be done to make this work and for all the parties to be happy?
"The governing board and the chancellor are the stewards of more than just a $1.4 billion budget and the delivery of curriculum to approximately 250,000 students across the various 10 campuses. They are the stewards of the public trust. It is hard to justify a $20 million price tag when that is attached to approximately 300 student-athletes in the four programs. The funding model needs to be restructured and the first step was for the governing board to eliminate the district funding obligation.
"The next best step is for the governing board to meet with the Gridiron Club to establish a basis for sharing information in the best interest of creating a solution that does not result in the obliteration of a meaningful component of the fabric of our community. I am sure our proposal will enjoy meaningful refinement when the district shares more of its information and experience.
"Ultimately, a collaborative effort between the district and the Gridiron Club to create a smooth transition from the district-sponsored funding model to a private funding model will allow for the efficiencies of private sector business practices to result in the potential for increased success for the programs.
"The district will be happy with the relief from financial and operational exposure and when the timely shift from a district-sponsored funding model to a private funding model is complete.
"The community will be happy when the programs are in the hands of highly efficient private sector stewards that will deliver a better product and weave a tighter fabric within the community.
"The teams and programs affected by this decision will be happy when they have a predictable and sustainable performance-based, private-funding model to rely upon. This is true for all seven teams in the conference. Each of these teams is entirely interdependent upon the survival and health of the others. This is bigger than just these four teams.
"Ultimately, it will take a 'league-think, survival mentality' for this to work. This 'league-think' will involve issues such as the sharing of information, best practices, revenue streams required to support the programs through a negotiated, phased transition with MCCCD and expenses through collaborative purchasing power and facilities efficiencies. This sharing will provide the highest and best chance that each team in the league remains viable beyond the 2018 season and ensure the commitment made by MCCCD to honor existing obligations, scholarships and contracts.
"In the meantime, the rumors and myths spinning in the press and social media need to be curtailed. This issue is not about aging infrastructure or out-of-date facilities as the district’s initial press secretary implied. The various stadiums and field facilities will continue to be used by JUCO soccer teams, track teams, and various other campus groups. The facilities are open to the general public for neighbors to walk, run and exercise daily. The colleges will continue to generate nominal revenue by leasing these facilities to groups from the general public for use by non-college related activities. Phoenix College, for example, leases its football field to St. Mary’s High School and Brophy College Prep for high school football games."
Why is this model do you feel is a win- win?
"I am an economist. I understand and agree with the governing board’s decision. I would have voted the same way if I was serving in their position. I also believe deeply in the economic concept of public goods. I think we all do. Public goods, generally speaking, are items that benefit society as a whole. Accordingly, they are typically paid for by tax dollars in one way or another. Some typical examples of Public Goods are library services, public education, police and fire protection, roadways, highways, clean air and a safe water supply. And, yes, community college educational infrastructure would be included in the definition as well. It is largely funded by the government and it places a heavy tax burden on local property owners and business owners.
"It would be difficult to justify that junior college football is a 'public good' that should be paid for entirely by the government, unless you can draw the direct connection to increased enrollment that occurs as a result of football’s contribution to the overall campus experience. Let’s be realistic in a time of significant compression of the state and county budgets. Phoenix College is not Ohio State University where the football program not only generates enough revenue to sustain football, but the entire athletic budget. The budget impact football has on the Phoenix College budget allocations is negative. At Phoenix College, the athletic program doesn’t generate significant revenue. It is a deep draw on financial resources available to the school.
"Privatizing the football programs is a win-win because everyone in the realm wins. It’s that simple. The final comment on the matter is best summarized by the infamous Ross Perot during the 1992 presidential election season. 'The activist is not the man who says the river is dirty. The activist is the man who cleans up the river.' Let’s work together in the interest of all parties to be the activists that clean this up rather than simply point out the problem to be borne by others."
