2018-02-08 17:14:02 UTC
Mike Pence wants the gay community to know it's all just one big misunderstanding.
On his way to head the U.S. Olympic delegation in Pyeongchang, the vice president made an attempt yesterday to reach out and speak with gay Olympics ice skater, Adam Rippon. This came after Rippon repeatedly blasted the Vice President for his anti-LGBT positions in recent interviews.
Rippon initially refused the meeting, which prompted Pence's dopey social media team to post some easily mockable hypocritical tweets.
SEE ALSO: Doug Jones' gay son sentences Mike Pence to life in side-eye prison
Just look at the ratio on these babies.
Headed to the Olympics to cheer on #TeamUSA . One reporter trying to distort 18 yr old nonstory to sow seeds of division. We won’t let that happen! #FAKENEWS . Our athletes are the best in the world and we are for ALL of them! #TEAMUSA
— Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) February 8, 2018
. @Adaripp I want you to know we are FOR YOU. Don’t let fake news distract you. I am proud of you and ALL OF OUR GREAT athletes and my only hope for you and all of #TeamUSA is to bring home the gold. Go get ‘em!
— Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) February 8, 2018
The Vice President is referring to allegations that he once supported conversion therapy for the gay community, which Pence denies . I, for one, am mystified how the LGBTQ community could ever come to such a conclusion, since the only place they could find his support was on the man's own freaking website .
On Mike Pence's congressional campaign website in 2000, the vice president posted this campaign promise:
"Resources should be directed toward those institutions which provide assistance to those seeking to change their sexual behavior."
Leaders in the LGBTQ community have largely interpreted Pence's statement to be an endorsement of conversion therapy. 
And even if, as the Vice President's team contends, Pence meant something else, the remainder of his record gives the LGBTQ community permanent pause. As governor of Indiana, Pence proposed a religious freedom act that would legalize discrimination against the LGBTQ community. As a congressman, he voted against the Employment Non-Discrimination Act. 
Twitter couldn't help but notice the hypocrisy.
"You will know them by their deeds."
Adam knows exactly how "for him" you are by your works, and no amount of Tweeting is going to change that.
— josh T. (@dshwa76) February 8, 2018
You are skating on thin ice in many ways.
— Fake Trump Troll 🌊 ❄️ (@FakeTrumpTroll) February 8, 2018
Rippon has since stated that he'd be open to having a discussion with Mike Pence after the Olympics. 
The LGBTQ Olympic Community on Twitter hereby presents Adam Rippon with the gold medal in courage (as well as spectacular leotards, I mean come ON).
