Tweet
On Tuesday, the world discovered that the Pentagon was planning a military parade . This was based on Trump’s orders. He wanted to see the parade on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington D.C.
Washington D.C.’s legislative body just gave Trump a big no by tweeting out a ‘no tanks’ symbol.
“The D.C. government will open on time today. DC Public Schools will open on time today. Sadly, the Giant Tank Parade is cancelled. Permanently,” they wrote.
The DC government will open on time today.
DC Public Schools will open on time today.
Sadly, the Giant Tank Parade is cancelled. Permanently. pic.twitter.com/mQmElqs3Tt
— Council of DC (@councilofdc) February 7, 2018
Trump has discussed the idea at other times in the past but this is the first time we discovered the Pentagon was actually planning the event.
“President Trump is incredibly supportive of America’s great service members who risk their lives every day to keep our country safe,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders claimed. “He has asked the Department of Defense to explore a celebration at which all Americans can show their appreciation.”
Council member Grosso told reporters that if Trump gets his way in having a military parade, then he will organize “an equally large parade and march for peace and for nonviolence” at the same time.
Continued below ad>>>
Council member Charles Allen said, “I don’t think anyone believes this would be about trying to honor men and women who serve our country. This would only be about feeding one man’s ego.”
Military parade down the streets of DC to feed an insecure man’s fragile ego? That’d be a big no. https://t.co/NHoiIEjj7e
— Charles Allen (@charlesallen) February 7, 2018
Washington D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser also gave Trump unwelcoming news. She told the President that if he wants a parade in DC then he’ll have to pay for it himself.
Bowser’s office reported that they have yet to be contacted in regard to setting up the parade.
 
**Note: All of our articles have hyperlinks to verifiable sources unless we’re providing audio/video evidence. We’re committed to fighting fake news. Never trust publications that don’t use hyperlinks or other evidence**
Facebook Comments
