Federal government's 'disadvantaged scheme' funnels millions to blue ribbon Liberal seats
Lucas Baird & Eryk Bagshaw
reddit
More
More than $120 million in funds from a federal government scheme designed to “address disadvantage” was diverted to Coalition held seats with some of the highest levels of socio-economic advantage in the country.
The $620 million National Stronger Regions Fund was established in 2014 with “a particular focus on assisting disadvantaged regions to achieve growth”.
SHARE
Local GP Dennis Gration in front of the unfinished Belgrave community hub.  
Photo: Joe Armao
But a Fairfax Media analysis of grant and census figures reveals upwards of $124 million - or 20 per cent of the scheme's available funds - went to Coalition held seats with individual incomes higher than the national median of $577, with some seats receiving millions of dollars in taxpayer funding despite having incomes as high as $900 a week. 
Among the highest-earning grant winners were the blue ribbon Liberal seats of Kooyong, which is held by Environment and Energy Minister Josh Frydenberg, and Warringah, represented by former prime minister Tony Abbott.
Related Articles
The $1 billion cost of pork barrelling revealed
The inner-Melbourne seat of Kooyong - where median incomes reach $770 a week - received $3.2 million for a community facility that will "expand the neighbourhood activity precinct and link directly to Greythorn Shopping Centre."
Mr Abbott's north shore Sydney seat - where median incomes are $952 a week - received $10 million to develop new headquarters for the Royal Far West charity in Manly. A spokesman for Mr Abbott said the charity had provided city services to country kids for decades and it would be wrong to imply the grant principally benefitted Warringah.
Advertisement
In contrast, Hinkler, a seat with one of the lowest median incomes in the country of just $412 per week received $400,000.
You will now receive updates from Breaking News Alert
Breaking News Alert
Get the latest news and updates emailed straight to your inbox.
By submitting your email you are agreeing to Fairfax Media's terms and conditions and privacy policy .
Blaxland, in Sydney’s west where the median income is only $385 per week, got nothing, along with four other seats including Watson and Fowler where the median weekly income only reaches $400.
It was a similar story in Victoria where Scullin, Calwell and Bruce received no disadvantaged funding despite having median incomes of under $480 a week.
La Trobe, a marginal Coalition held seat in Melbourne's outer eastern suburbs received more than $3.8 million in one grant for the construction of a 'Multi-Purpose Health Hub' despite protest from local GPs.
Belgrave doctor Dennis Gration said taxpayer money had been "thrown away” at the seat where median incomes are $620 a week. 
“This system is misrepresenting our community so the people in need never really see any benefit,” Dr Gration said.
 
“They need to be prudent with the way they spend the taxpayer money. Otherwise you don’t have enough for real provision of hospitals and health services and other community services that are vital.”
The acting chief executive of Yarra Ranges Council, Ali Wastie, said the application process for the grant "was extensive and rigorous" and the centre would provide youth counselling, dental, aged and disability services.
"The council surveyed a large proportion of the population and 98 per cent of those surveyed supported the development of the hub," he said.
Other grants under the scheme included $3.5 million for eco-tourism cabins in the marginal seat of Corangamite, a $4.8 million "state of the art regional indoor aquatic facility" in Kangaroo Flat and a purpose built hydrotherapy pool in Moora, Western Australia. 
A spokesman for Regional Development Minister John McVeigh, who inherited the portfolio in the December cabinet reshuffle, said an independent review in 2016 found funding decisions by the Department of Infrastructure and Regional Development were consistent with the competitive merit-based selection process.
 
When the scheme was announced by former deputy prime minister Warren Truss in 2013 it was designed to put an end to partisan funding and focus on economically struggling regions.
“The National Stronger Regions Fund is supporting investment in a diverse range of infrastructure from tourism, water and transport infrastructure, providing sustainable economic growth in areas of disadvantage across the country,” added his assistant minister, Michael McCormack, two years later.
But three years after the scheme was established, money continued to flow into seats such as Durack in Western Australia, which has a full-time employment rate 7 percent above the national average.
It received $24 million between 2014 and 2016.
Nine high-income earning Labor seats and the Green-held seat of Melbourne also received $40 million under the scheme.
 
Overall more than 70 per cent of the program went to Coalition-held seats.
Fairfax Media last week revealed close to $1 billion had been funnelled into marginal electorates by both Labor and Coalition governments since 2011 under two different schemes, the Regional Development and Community Development grants. 
Leading Coalition figures including former Liberal leader John Hewson and former infrastructure minister Darren Chester have accused both sides of politics of having undermined public trust through the funding schemes. 
Labor's shadow regional services spokesman Stephen Jones said the National Stronger Regions Fund had failed regional communities. 
“For all their talk, the Coalition has done nothing to address growing inequality in regional Australia, using programs like the Stronger Regions and Community Development Grants program to funnel taxpayers’ money into Coalition-held, wealthy electorates," he said. 
Mr Jones said Commonwealth grant guidelines state the government should give consideration to the geographic distribution of funds to ensure they are fair and equitable.
“This government’s approach to regional grants funding flies in the face of these guidelines," he said.
Mr Frydenberg's office referred Fairfax Media to Mr McVeigh's statement.
Do you know more? eryk.bagshaw@fairfaxmedia.com.au
Advertisement
