Continue reading the main story
Still, if the state approves the tax rebate for the Chawlas, it could indirectly, but personally, benefit the president, who owns the family business through a trust, an arrangement that raises some constitutional concerns, critics and legal experts say.
In lawsuits filed last year, a number of lawmakers, academics and state attorneys general contended that Mr. Trump was violating the Constitution’s emoluments clauses, which essentially prohibit the president from accepting certain gifts from foreign or domestic governments. A federal judge in New York dismissed one case , while a federal judge in Maryland signaled recently that he might allow another to proceed.
“The country’s founders included the emoluments clauses as a big bright-line rule,” said Jed Shugerman, a professor at the Fordham University School of Law who helped write a legal brief in support of the plaintiffs in the emoluments litigation. Assessing the Chawlas’ application, he argued that while some state incentives are allowable, “Mississippi has discretion to give the tax rebate, and if they do award it to this hotel, then they are likely giving Trump an emolument.”
In preparation for the same brief, John Mikhail at Georgetown University Law Center studied 40 dictionaries from the founding era and concluded that the term “emolument” was almost always defined more broadly than the Trump administration has interpreted it. Still, some legal experts argue that domestic emoluments are allowable so long as Mr. Trump does not earn them from his service as president.
“If you’re applying the original meaning of emolument, the Mississippi transaction you’re describing could reasonably be called one,” Mr. Mikhail said. “Whether or not it’s the precise kind of emolument prohibited by the Constitution is a more difficult question.”
Even without a legal problem, the rebate request demonstrates how the president’s sprawling business operation can intersect with state and local governments that rely on federal funding, creating a perception of potential conflicts of interest. Government officials from Florida to New Jersey have confronted the balancing act that comes from having a Trump property in their backyards.
When he became president, Mr. Trump decided not to sell off his assets, but he promised that new hotel branding or management projects would be subject to approval from an outside ethics adviser, Bobby Burchfield. In general, Mr. Burchfield is required to review transactions or contracts between the Trump Organization and local, state or federal agencies as well as certain deals with private entities, he has said. Because the Trump Organization itself did not request the Mississippi rebate and would receive no direct benefit from it, Mr. Burchfield said he is unlikely to scrutinize it.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
The Chawla brothers, who are seeking the rebate from the Mississippi Development Authority, seemed confident that it would be approved. Although the authority is still reviewing the application, a business plan the Chawlas submitted to local officials in December stated that the hotel “utilizes local tax credits and the Mississippi Development Authority (MDA) Tourism Tax Rebate program,” and that “our development team is securing final agreements.”
The executive director of the authority, Glenn McCullough Jr., has shown support for President Trump and is an appointee of the state’s Republican governor, Phil Bryant.
Photo
Previously scheduled to open in 2017 as the Lyric Hotel and Spa, the project has been rebranded the Scion West End and is now expected to be finished this fall. Credit Brandon Dill for The New York Times
The partnership between the Chawlas and the Trumps materialized after Mr. Bryant, also a Trump supporter, introduced members of the two families during the presidential campaign.
In his email to The Times, Dinesh Chawla said political influence had not played a role in the development. “No contact with Governor Bryant or his executive staff has been made regarding the project, other than our general discussion about what the project contains,” he said. “The project is subject to review by financial auditors, construction supervisors, and it cannot be bypassed by executive staff, nor the Governor to my knowledge.”
Clay Chandler, a spokesman for Mr. Bryant, said the Chawlas had followed the same procedure as other applicants for the tax rebate.
Newsletter Sign Up
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address. Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up
You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred. Please try again later.
You are already subscribed to this email.
