'Thank you' - Thomas Christiansen issues emotional farewell message to Leeds United fans
Friday, 9th Feb 2018  20:21 by @LucasMonk_
The Dane had effusive words for Leeds United supporters on social media.
Thomas Christiansen has issued a heartfelt goodbye to Leeds United fans via social media.
Christiansen parted company with United last Sunday, following a comprehensive defeat at home to promotion rivals Cardiff City - a result that left the club 10th in the Championship table and seven points off the play-off places.
The writing, though, had appeared to be on the wall for Christiansen prior to last weekend's defeat. United chairman Andrea Radrizzani recently admitted in an interview with the Yorkshire Evening Post that he had made a "big mistake" in appointing the former APOEL boss as the club's head coach last June, and that he had contemplated sacking him following a chastening 2-1 defeat to Newport County in the third round of the FA Cup last month.
Christiansen has since been replaced by Paul Heckingbottom, who was unveiled as United's new head coach on Tuesday only days after agreeing a new contract with Barnsley. During his time at Oakwell, Heckingbottom achieved promotion from League One and also steered the Tykes to victory in the 2016 Football League Trophy final.
Having departed Elland Road with a record of 15 wins, 6 draws and 14 defeats from 35 games, Christiansen has taken to Twitter tonight to bid farewell to Leeds fans.
— Thomas Christiansen (@T9Christiansen) February 9, 2018
Meanwhile, the former United boss has already been linked with the vacant managerial position at Bundesliga 2 side VFL Bochum, with German outlet WestLine.de claiming that he could become their fourth coach of the season.
Bochum are currently 13th in the division, but they are only ahead of Darmstadt - the occupants of the relegation play-off place - by four points.
Photo: Action Images
Please report offensive, libellous or inappropriate posts by using the links provided.
Page:
You need to login in order to post your comments
Recent Stories
