Former Campbell County Judge Tim Nolan indicted on more charges going back 50 years
Scott Wartman , swartman@nky.com Published 3:46 p.m. ET Sept. 14, 2017 | Updated 6:04 p.m. ET Sept. 14, 2017
CLOSE
Nine victims alleged in sex charges against Tim Nolan, who was a district judge in Campbell County in the 1970s and 1980s. The Enquirer/Cara Owsley The Enquirer/Cara Owsley
Buy Photo
Tim Nolan listens to his attorney, Margo Grubbs, in Grant County Court on June 12, 2017.
(Photo: The Enquirer/Scott Wartman)Buy Photo
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 1 COMMENTEMAILMORE
The sex trafficking case against former Campbell County Judge Tim Nolan has kept growing. 
And it's getting stranger. 
A grand jury on Thursday indicted him on eight more charges, including rape of a female over age 12 from an incident dating back to the summer of 1965. That's when Nolan, 70, would've have been about 18 years old.
The other new charges took place between 2004 and September 2016 and include two counts of human trafficking, one count of attempted human trafficking with a minor, one count of sodomy, and three counts of unlawful transaction with a minor. 
Nolan faces more than 100 years in prison on 28 felony charges, including four counts of human trafficking of a minor. The total number of victims is 22, including eight juveniles, according to the attorney general's office.
A frail-looking Nolan shuffled into a Campbell County courtroom and entered a not guilty plea Thursday on the new charges.
His attorney, Margo Grubbs, directed Nolan where to sit after he wandered past the defense table. She said Nolan suffered a fall in jail and had hoped to move the case along on Thursday. 
"I have a deteriorating defendant here," Grubbs said. 
The new charges further delayed Nolan's case. Instead of a hearing on several motions filed, Judge Kathleen Lape went back into her chambers to talk to the defense attorneys and prosecutor about the new indictment. 
Nolan's downfall has garnered much speculation and attention in Northern Kentucky since police raided his southern Campbell County farm in February. In addition to being a district judge in Campbell County in the 1970s and 1980s, Nolan made a name for himself as a leader in conservative politics, often raising objections about tax increases at public meetings. He filed a lawsuit against the libraries challenging their taxes. 
He also campaigned for President Donald Trump in 2016. 
Buy Photo
Tim Nolan confers with his attorney Margo Grubbs in Campbell County Circuit Court on Thursday
 (Photo: Scott Wartman/The Enquirer)
The indictments don't contain details of the crimes. Information has come out piecemeal through court hearings and documents. 
Search warrants and affidavits from the Campbell County Police Department claim women identified as Jane Doe 1 and Jane Doe 2 accused Nolan of extorting sex from them in exchange for money or under threats. Jane Doe 1 estimated she had sex with Nolan in exchange for money more than 50 times, often told by Nolan to do drugs and alcohol beforehand, the warrant stated.
Both women said in the documents they were addicted to heroin. Jane Doe 1 was "essentially homeless" and Jane Doe 2 relied on Nolan for income, food and transportation.
Under questioning from Grubbs, Campbell County Police Detective Donald Dornheggen said the investigation into Nolan began in December 2016 when one of the victims contacted a school resource officer in Campbell County.
The victim and her grandmother lived on Nolan's property as a tenant.
Grubbs declined comment, saying she was surprised by the new indictment. The special prosecutor in the case, Assistant Attorney General Barbara Whaley, also declined comment.
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 1 COMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: http://cin.ci/2x1QRNn
Share your feedback to help improve our site experience!
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.
