Rep. Duncan Hunter's GOP colleagues reportedly worry about his re-election prospects — and his conduct
Tom Williams / CQ Roll Call
Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Calif.
Joshua Stewart Contact Reporter
The news outlet Politico on Thursday reported that Republicans are worried about Rep. Duncan Hunter — both his conduct in the Capitol and his prospects for re-election.
Hunter was accused in the article of drinking, even on the job, and having inappropriate relationships with women in Washington. His staff denied unprofessional conduct.
Amid a criminal investigation over personal spending of Hunter’s campaign funds, some in the GOP worry that time is running out to run another Republican in Hunter’s East County district.
Under federal investigation for over a year, Rep. Duncan Hunter is getting pushed hard from two directions.
The FBI is looking into his campaign spending after reports that he used money from donors for his own personal expenses, from family vacations to oral surgery and private school tuition.
Hunter denies all intentional wrongdoing and said he has paid back all funds that were spent by mistake. But on Thursday, Politico reported that other Republicans are encouraging Hunter, R-Alpine, to end his career in Congress by not seeking a sixth term.
As he awaits results of the criminal investigation, Hunter’s GOP colleagues made his life tougher by portraying him as a congressman who carouses around Washington. Quoted anonymously, the Republicans suggested Hunter had a drinking problem and had inappropriate relationships with a staffer and a lobbyist on Capitol Hill.
Typical of the swipes was the unnamed Republican lawmaker who said, “He’s enjoyed his time in Washington — probably a little too much.”
They also described efforts by friendly lawmakers to get the 41-year old representative help, citing possible post-traumatic stress disorder from his military service.
Politico reported that the GOP is concerned that Hunter’s ongoing criminal investigation could leave the party with an election day disaster in which they lose one of the reddest seats in California to a Democrat.
Hunter declined to be interviewed by The San Diego Union-Tribune on Thursday, but his staff said he’s not backing down.
“Regarding his running for re-election, he is 100 percent in, all his colleagues and GOP leadership knows this, any suggestion to the contrary is completely false,” Hunter’s spokesman, Michael Harrison, said by email.
Hunter was interviewed by Politico on Monday and said that reports of unprofessional behavior are incorrect. He declined to discuss his relationships with women on Capitol Hill at first. Then he called Politico back and said the allegations were “tabloid trash.”
Asked if he was denying involvement with the women, he replied, “No, it’s tabloid trash.”
Hunter’s district is one of the most conservative in the state and the Hunter family is a political dynasty with unrivaled name recognition in inland San Diego County.
But two Democrats, Ammar Campa-Najjar and Josh Butner, outraised him in the last quarter of 2017. Campa-Najar raised $176,000, Butner raised $106,500 and Hunter raised $51,000. Meanwhile, Hunter spent more than three times the amount he raised that quarter paying his legal bills.
Given the situation, Hunter is being encouraged by Republicans to step aside in time to get a viable Republican on the ballot ahead of the March 9 filing deadline, Politico reported.
One Republican candidate, Shamus Sayed, raised $185,539 last quarter. State Sen. Joel Anderson , R-Alpine, has long been considered a potential contender, but recently filed paperwork to run for an open seat on the Board of Equalization. Rep. Darrell Issa , R-Vista, is also reportedly considered a potential candidate after he announced he wouldn’t seek re-election in his current seat. Issa recently reaffirmed his endorsement of Hunter and has ruled out running if Hunter stays in the campaign.
Hunter has been the subject of a series of stories in the Union-Tribune since the Federal Election Commission first questioned campaign spending on video games in April 2016. The newspaper has revealed campaign contributions were spent on overseas vacations, home improvements, groceries, school uniforms, school lunches and theme parks.
