Newsletter
Is it believable that they weren’t after the Trump material and “made clear they did not want” it?
The Russian is known to have ties to Russian intelligence and cybercriminals, according to the article written by Matthew Rosenberg.
They delivered the $100K in cash and then backed out. The $100K in tax dollars was lost to Russians.
The spies cut out of the deal allegedly because they were also fearful of political fallout in Washington if they were seen to be buying scurrilous information on the president.
According to the Times: The N.S.A. even used its official Twitter account nearly a dozen times to send coded messages to the Russian.
In other words, the N.S.A. was colluding with Russians to get anti-Trump dirt, although they claim it wasn’t their intent.
THE RUSSIANS INSISTED ON GIVING THEM TRUMP DIRT
The Russian(s) was anxious to give the spies the video of Trump with Russian prostitutes and dropped the price to only a million dollars from ten million. The Russian showed the spies a video clip of a man with prostitutes but they couldn’t make out who the man was.
But they didn’t want the video? It was the Russian pushing the video on them?
THE NY TIMES WAS INVOLVED
The Times bought four documents from the same people. How did the anti-Trump newspaper get involved?
The material purported to be Russian intelligence reports, and each focuses on associates of Mr. Trump. Carter Page, the former campaign adviser who has been the focus of F.B.I. investigators, features in one; Robert and Rebekah Mercer, the billionaire Republican donors, in another.
Almost all of it came from newspaper accounts.
HILLARY’S POLITICAL FIXER POPS UP IN THIS STORY
The Times also discusses Hillary’s political fixer who has been crisscrossing Europe trying to get the alleged video or any dirt on Trump. The Times wrote:
Cody Shearer, an American political operative with ties to the Democratic Party, has been crisscrossing Eastern Europe for more than six months to secure the purported kompromat from a different Russian, said people familiar with the efforts, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid damaging their relationship with him.
Reached by phone late last year, Mr. Shearer would say only that his work was “a big deal — you know what it is, and you shouldn’t be asking about it.” He then hung up.
It’s all very suspicious.
Sean Hannity claims even more explosive information than the Senate and House committee memos will soon come out. Is this an attempt by the NY Times to protect the guilty?
Their report followed one by The Intercept.
This, from the pulitzer prize winning reporter james risen, is a huge deal https://t.co/1TklgrEMsg pic.twitter.com/zHiSUa8jlD
— Adam Serwer  (@AdamSerwer) February 9, 2018
Related
