Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Pinterest
Exxon Mobil profit quintupled after Trump tax cut
Exxon Mobil's fourth-quarter profit nearly quintupled after President Trump's tax cuts gave the oil giant a big lift.
Post to Facebook
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
6
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Exxon Mobil profit quintupled after Trump tax cut
Nathan Bomey , USA TODAY Published 8:27 a.m. ET Feb. 2, 2018
CLOSE
U.S. oil prices have hit their highest since 2014 due to production cuts led by OPEC as well as healthy demand, although analysts caution that markets may be overheating. David Pollard reports.  Video provided by Reuters Newslook
This April 25, 2017, photo, shows Exxon service station signs in Nashville, Tenn. Exxon Mobil Corp. reports earnings Friday, Oct. 27, 2017.
(Photo: Mark Humphrey, AP)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 6 COMMENTEMAILMORE
Exxon Mobil's fourth-quarter profit nearly quintupled after President Trump's tax cuts gave the oil giant a big lift.
Exxon reported a quarterly profit of $8.38 billion, up from $1.68 billion a year earlier.
The spike came in part due to increasing oil prices and a $5.94 billion one-time boost from the tax reform package.
The company has said it plans to invest $50 billion over the next five years in the U.S., including new operations to extract more energy from the surging Permian Basin in west Texas.
“The impact of tax reform on our earnings reflects the magnitude of our historic investment in the U.S. and strengthens our commitment to further grow our business here,” Exxon CEO Darren Woods said in a statement.
Unlike many major U.S. employers, Exxon did not announce wage increases or worker bonuses pegged to the corporate tax cut from 35% to 21%.
The boost from tax reform came largely due to a reevaluation of deferred income taxes.
Exxon's stock fell 2.4% in pre-market trading to $86.80.
Total revenue rose 17.9% to $66.5 billion for the quarter. Revenue was up 17.4% to $244.4 billion for the year.
The company's net income for 2017 totaled $19.7 billion, up 151% from 2016.
Recent gains for petroleum prices have helped. The price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil was trading near $66 per barrel on Friday morning, which reflects an increase of more than 20% from three months ago.
Follow USA TODAY reporter Nathan Bomey on Twitter @ NathanBomey .
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 6 COMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2s2xdlB
