googletag.slots["infinite_scroll_separator"] = googletag.defineSlot("1107919/infiniteScroll_separator", [[970, 250], [300, 250], [728, 90], [1006, 500], [970, 90], [1340, 500], [1237, 500]], "dfp-ad-infinite_scroll_separator")
Donald John Trump Tillerson: Russia already looking to interfere in 2018 midterms Dems pick up deep-red legislative seat in Missouri Speier on Trump's desire for military parade: 'We have a Napoleon in the making' MORE is not ready to approve the release of a Democratic memo meant to rebut a document he declassified last week that was authored by Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee, the White House announced.
 
White House counsel Don McGahn wrote a letter to House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes
Devin Gerald Nunes Trump likely to approve release of Dem memo: report Trump called for unity — he didn’t even last a week Mark Levin: Clinton colluded with Russia, 'paid for a warrant' to surveil Carter Page MORE (R-Calif.) explaining that “although the president is inclined to declassify” the Democratic memo, the administration believes it would create “especially significant concerns” for “national security and law enforcement interests.”
 
Trump’s legal team insists that it came to that conclusion at the behest of senior officials at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the Department of Justice (DOJ).
In a separate letter to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein
The White House said it would work with the House Intelligence Committee if it wants to revise the Democratic memo and resubmit it for declassification.
“The president encourages the Committee to undertake these efforts,” the letter states. “The Executive Branch stands ready to review any subsequent draft of the Feb. 5th memorandum for declassification at the earliest opportunity.”
The House panel voted earlier this week to make public the 10-page Democratic memo, authored by Rep. Adam Schiff
Adam Bennett Schiff Trump likely to approve release of Dem memo: report Trump called for unity — he didn’t even last a week Trump to be briefed on Democratic memo MORE (Calif.), the top Democrat on the committee, after Trump declassified a four-page Republican memo last week alleging that officials at the FBI and DOJ had abused their powers to spy on a Trump campaign official.
The White House declassified the Republican memo over the objections of the FBI and the DOJ.
The GOP memo said that law enforcement officials shielded from surveillance courts their reliance on the so-called Steele dossier, which was funded in part by Hillary Clinton
Democrats said that memo was cherry-picked and did not tell the full story of how the FBI and DOJ obtained the warrant.
 
Democrats argue that there was ample evidence to spy on Page and that the applications given to the spy court included much more information than just what was in the disputed dossier.
 
The Democrats were expected to provide evidence backing up their claims in the memo the Intelligence Committee voted to make public but that the White House is refusing to declassify.
Democrats reacted with fury over the White House’s decision to block the release of their memo.
“The President’s double standard when it comes to transparency is appalling,” Senate Minority Leader  Charles Schumer
The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2018 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.
