Flag As Spam
Tell Congress: A military parade for Trump is a terrible mistake
President Trump has given orders to the Department of Defense to prepare for a military parade and that it is being "worked at the highest levels of the military."
Here's the truth: our military is made of of the very best men and women this country has to offer. They should not be used and abused in this way simply to prop up Donald Trump's fragile self-image.
Any Commander-in-Chief who respected the traditions of the military and the people who serve would understand that. But, it is increasingly clear that the United States does not have a Commander-in-Chief as much as we have a wannabe banana republic strongman.
This parade would not be a national celebration -- it would an international disgrace. And it's important that all of us -- especially veterans, military families, and those who support them make their voices heard. Our troops have no choice in this matter; we are their voice.
And last but not least, the parade would cost untold millions of dollars, as military equipment would have to be unnecessarily shipped to our nation's capitol and the heavy tanks and vehicles would almost surely destroy the pavement of Washington D.C's streets.
Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md., and Rep. Marc Veasey, D-Texas, introduced bills in their respective chambers to prevent federal money from being used to fund the demonstration of military strength proposed by the president.
Veasey introduced the PARADE Act, short for "Preventing Allocation of Resources for Absurd Defense Expenditures," and suggested potential parade funds instead be allocated to other military causes. "The PARADE Act ensures that [POTUS] cannot spend millions amd millions of taxpayer dollars on a military parade that strokes his big ego and his authoritarian wish list," Veasey said.
Sponsored by
Democratic Coalition Against Trump
Action Network is an open platform that empowers individuals and groups to organize for progressive causes. We encourage responsible activism, and do not support using the platform to take unlawful or other improper action. We do not control or endorse the conduct of users and make no representations of any kind about them.
Maps powered by Mapbox .
Full documentation and tutorial videos are available here .
Get In Touch
Send us an email with your name and your message at support@actionnetwork.org and we'll get back to you as soon as possible.
Want to partner with us?
Action Network partners get access to our full range of tools, including the ability to upload activists and subscribe them to your list, create custom-branded email and page wrappers, and more. Join organizations large and small who've made the switch!
