Congressional candidate Birkenstock, campaign manager criticized for threatening Facebook detractors
Filed under Politics at
Congressional candidate Veronica Birkenstock said she's "fed up" with people who have been criticizing her staffing company, Practical Employee Solutions. And she's willing to send a threatening letter through an attorney to stop it. 
Veronica Birkenstock
Birkenstock, a Republican from Frisco, is facing incumbent U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess, R-Pilot Point, in the March 6 primary for Congressional District 26, which includes Denton County and parts of Tarrant County. 
"It is disappointing and highly inappropriate for a candidate to threaten voters," Burgess said in a statement Friday. 
Veronica Birkenstock said she's "fed up" with people criticizing her staffing company. She's engaged with  local Republican activists on Facebook, asking them to "be careful" of their unsavory comments.
Over the last several months, two GOP precinct chairs and one local Republican club president have accused Birkenstock's Frisco-based staffing company, Practical Employee Solutions, of taking jobs away from Americans by offering temporary visas to foreign workers. 
Birkenstock recently engaged with those critics about two weeks ago on Facebook, defending her company and asking others to "be careful" of sharing any disparaging remarks. The conversations were mostly centered on an  attack ad from the Burgess campaign.  
Birkenstock's campaign manager, Lisa Hendrickson, has also threatened to take legal action against a local Republican club president for making false accusations that Hendrickson declined to specify.
One of Birkenstock's more vocal critics, Denton County GOP precinct chairwoman Lillian Adams, received a threatening letter in September from the Houston-based Steele Law Group, which represents Birkenstock. The letter threatened to publish information about Adams' previous assault and eviction cases in Denton County if she didn't delete her posts and "state they were made in error." 
The letter also asked her to never mention the campaign again. 
"If anyone attacks me, my family or my company, I will use every letter of the law to protect me and my reputation," Birkenstock said. "We are upstanding citizens and I will always fight to protect our reputation. And I am fed up with the constant almost-harassment on Facebook."
Adams, who is also the most recent former president of the Denton County League of United Latin American Citizens, has since ignored the letter's requests. It contains at least two inaccuracies, she said. She was never convicted of assault in 2012, as the letter suggests. Rather, she pleaded guilty on the charge in exchange for 18 months probation, and the case was eventually disposed, Denton County court records show. 
Adams was the defendant in at least two eviction cases in 2012. One of the cases was canceled while the other was an attempt to evict renters in her home, Adams said. 
She believes the letter reflects an active attempt to suppress voters' freedom of speech. 
"If constituents are against anything that she wants to have, what is she going to do, sue everybody?" Adams said. 
The attorney who signed the letter, Howard Steele, did not respond to multiple calls requesting comment. Birkenstock claims she didn't know the contents of the letter when Steele sent it. She acknowledges only sending Adams' comments to her attorney and asking him to "handle it." 
"I asked my law firm to review what she was doing," she said. "I knew they were working on something but I don't know what they actually did. ... I just told them to handle it and they have my express permission to handle it."
Cindy Barnett, another Denton County GOP precinct chairwoman, also said she felt threatened after she posted Burgess' attack ad in a Facebook group on Jan. 23. Birkenstock commented on the post, saying that "any and all false statements made will be used to hold all accountable." 
Barnett said she was alarmed because she didn't feel like her post was unusual, especially for an election year. 
"I've been a precinct chair for like three or four elections, and I've never seen anything like this," she said. 
Lisa Hendrickson, the campaign manager for Congressional District 26 candidate Veronica Birkenstock, acknowledged sending Kathleen Lieberman, president of the Ladies of Liberty Republican Women's Club, a text message threatening to take legal action against her for disparaging remarks.
Kathleen Lieberman
Kathleen Lieberman, president of the Ladies of Liberty Republican Women's Club, also had a dust-up with Birkenstock's campaign manager, Hendrickson, who is the former Denton County Republican Party chairwoman. Hendrickson acknowledged sending Lieberman a text on Jan. 10 threatening legal action for talking about her "in a negative fashion with lies." 
Lieberman believes the threat was based on a misunderstanding. And Hendrickson declined to go into specifics behind the threat. 
"I'm honestly not getting into this anymore," she said, adding that she asked her attorney to send a cease-and-desist letter after the exchange with Lieberman. 
"I approved it and It was supposed to go through certified mail," she said. 
Hendrickson declined to name her attorney, and Lieberman said she never received a letter.
Lisa Hendrickson
Courtesy photo
"This seems to be the pattern around [Denton County]," Lieberman said. "It's what I would call silence and suppression — if you don't agree with their narrative, then you are the problem. ... But if we see red flags here, then why would we send them to Washington?" 
JULIAN GILL can be reached at 940-566-6882. 
