February 9, 2018  | by Chris Cillizza and Saba Hamedy
Why Donald Trump won't condemn Rob Porter
On Friday afternoon, President Donald Trump was asked about the resignation of White House staff secretary Rob Porter amid allegations of domestic abuse.
"He says he's innocent and I think you have to remember that," said Trump. "He said very strongly yesterday that he's innocent, but you'll have to talk to him about that."
Of course, what Porter denies is something both of his ex-wives as well as a third woman who dated him allege: That he physically and mentally abused them. But a published picture of Porter's ex-wife sporting a black eye brought a quick resignation.
And yet, Trump sides with Porter -- with nary a mention of the women. Which, you'll remember, is the exact same thing he did when Senate nominee Roy Moore of Alabama faced accusations from a number of women that he had pursued physical relationships with them when they were teenagers and he was in his 30s.
"He totally denies it," Trump said of Moore at the time. "He says it didn't happen."
Trump's view on allegations made against his friends and allies is born of necessity.
Remember that in the course of the 2016 campaign, Trump faced accusations from more than a dozen women that he has sexually abused or acted inappropriately with them. He denied all of the allegations and insisted the women were lying because they didn't like his politics.
If Trump is willing to acknowledge that Porter abused his two ex-wives as well a former girlfriend, then Pandora's box is opened on him.
If Porter's accusers are to be believed, then why aren't Trump's accusers? You get the idea.
The Point: This is a President who came into office under extraordinary circumstances and with a background unlike anyone before him. That background makes it very, very hard for Trump to lead the country from a moral perspective -- even if he wanted to. Which he doesn't .
-- Chris
QUOTE OF THE DAY
"'We wish him well. ... He did a good job."
- President Donald Trump on Rob Porter , his former staff secretary who left the White House after allegations of domestic abuse from two ex-wives (who detailed to CNN what they said were years of consistent abuse from Porter )
🚨RETIREMENTS CONTINUE🚨
Minnesota Democrat Rick Nolan announced on Friday that he will retire from Congress at the end of this term. "There is a time and a purpose for everything and now is the time for me to pass the baton to the next generation," Nolan said in a statement.
From CNN's Adam Levy :
Nolan in is his third current term in Congress, and narrowly won his 2016 reelection by roughly 2,000 votes over Republican challenger Stewart Mills. He previously represented southwest Minnesota from 1975-1981. Nolan’s retirement is good news for Republicans, as this seat represents one of their best pick up opportunities in 2018. Even before Nolan’s announcement, this was going to be one of the most competitive districts of the campaign. During Nolan’s three terms representing the 8th district, he never won with more than 54% of the vote. CNN currently rates the race as a toss-up.
 
Minnesota’s 8th District voted for Trump 54-38, an incredible 22-point swing from Obama’s 52-46 victory here in 2012. The district encompasses northeastern Minnesota, including Duluth and the northern Twin Cities.  
Nolan is the 53rd member to leave Congress in this election cycle -- the 17th Democrat, with 36 Republicans also departing.
Read more in CNN's  Eric Bradner  and  Terence Burlij  article  here .
POINT: ON INSTA!
The Point is now on Instagram, thanks to CNN's  Brenna Williams . Click on  CNN Politics' Instagram  story every Monday through Friday afternoon for more #content.
CHRIS' GOOD READS
