UK Politics
Japan warns Theresa May its giant firms will quit UK if botched Brexit makes it 'unprofitable' to stay
'It is as simple as that. And this is all high stakes that I think all of us need to keep in mind', Prime Minister is told after No 10 gathering
Thursday 8 February 2018 17:00 GMT
Click to follow
Thirteen Russians charged with interfering in US election
The Japanese ambassador has warned Theresa May that his country’s firms will quit Britain if a botched Brexit makes it “unprofitable” to stay.
Koji Tsuruoka laid bare growing nervousness about the impact of EU withdrawal on the Japanese car giants , banks and tech companies after meeting the Prime Minister in Downing Street.
“If there is no profitability of continuing operation in [the] UK, not Japanese only, no private company can continue operations,” Mr Tsuruoka said.
Verhofstadt accuses May ally of spreading ‘far-right’ propaganda
“So it is as simple as that. And this is all high stakes that I think all of us need to keep in mind.”
The warning comes after the Japanese government, in a leaked letter, called on Ms May to keep Britain in the EU single market and customs union and maintain a free flow of workers.
But the Prime Minister has vowed to pull the UK out of the EU’s economic structures and end free movement of citizens – although, in reality, those changes cannot take place until after a transitional period.
Speaking outside No 10, Mr Tsuruoka said Japanese companies were “enjoying their operations in the UK” and wished to stay – but that the decision rested on the outcome of the Brexit negotiations.
He added: “The question is whether the arrangements that will be reached between the two sides will allow the Japanese companies, who are willing and in some ways determined to continue to operate in the UK, to make that happen.
“This is contingent on a number of factors and there is not just one single factor that will be determining the decision.”
His country’s companies were “watching very closely” and badly needed “clarity and certainty, predictability”, Mr Tsuruoka said.
Brexit talks: Top issues facing UK on leaving EU
Brexit talks: Top issues facing UK on leaving EU
1/7 Customs union
The key issue of negotiations remains Britains access – or withdrawal from the existing EU customs union. Since the referendum there has been hot debate over what exactly Brexit 'means' – would this mean a full, complete removal from he customs union, ' a hard Brexit' or adopting the rules and travel guidelines of the EU (similar to Turkey), a 'soft Brexit'. Number 10 has so far insisted that 'Brexit means Brexit' and the UK will be leaving the customs union, but after revelations of the potential economic impacts on Britain become clear, the Government may be inclined the change their position.
Alamy
2/7 Northern Ireland-Irish border
Though progress was made last year – there has still been so solid agreement on the issue of whether there will be a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. To ensure border-less travel on the island, the countries must be in "regulatory alignment" – and therefore adhere to the same rules as the customs union. In December, the Conservative party's coalition partners, the DUP, refused a draft agreement that would place the UK/EU border  in the Irish sea, due to potential of undermining the union. May has promised that would not be the case and a 'specific solution' would need to be found.
Getty
3/7 Transition period
Despite protest from a small number of Conservative MP's , the Government and the EU are largely in agreement that a transitional period will need to take place in order to prepare for Brexit. The terms however, have reached a grey area. Though May hss agreed that the UK will continue to contribute to the EU budget until 2021, the PM wants to be able to select which laws made during this time the UK will have to adhere to. Chief negotiator Michel Barnier (seen here with EU Minister David Davis) has said the UK must adopt all of the laws passed during the transition, without any input from British ministers or MEPs.
Rex
4/7 Rights of EU citizens living the UK
The Prime Minister has promised EU citizens already living in the UK the right to live and work in the UK after Brexit – but the rights of those who arrive after 'Brexit day' remains unclear. May insists that those who arrive during the transition period should not be allowed to stay, whereas the EU believe the cut-off point should be later.
Getty
5/7 Future trade agreement (with the EU)
Despite this being a key issue in negotiations, the Government has yet to lay out exactly what it wants from a trade deal with the EU. Infighting within the Cabinet has prevented a solid position, with some MP's happy to go with a 'no deal is better than a bad deal' concept and others rallying behind single market access. The EU has already confirmed that access to the single market would be impossible without the UK remaining within the customs union.
Getty Images
6/7 Future trade agreements (internationally)
The Government has already begun attempting to woo foreign leaders into prospective trade agreements, with various high-profile state visits to China, India and the Canada for May, and the now infamous invitation to US President Donald Trump to visit London. However the UK cannot make trade agreements with another country while it is still a member of the EU, and the potential loss of trade with the worlds major powers is a source of anxiety for the PM. The EU has said the UK cannot secure trade deals during the transitional perio
EPA
7/7 Financial services
Banks in the UK will be hit hard regardless of the Brexit outcome. The EU has refused to give British banks passporting rights to trade within the EU, dashing the hopes of a special 'city deal'. However according to new reports Germany has suggested allowing trade on the condition that the UK continues paying into the EU budget – even after the transition period.
Getty
However, the ambassador gave some backing to the beleaguered Prime Minister over claims the Cabinet is split over Brexit, saying: “I am not under that impression coming out of today’s meeting.
“I am under the impression that the UK Government is very firmly united behind the Prime Minister’s leadership in search and in pursuit of achieving the free, frictionless trade with the EU in a most ambitious manner.”
The comments came as sources said the second meeting this week of the “inner Cabinet” charged with agreeing a long-term Brexit plan broke up without achieving a breakthrough.
The 11-strong sub-committee spent just over two hours discussing future trade options – after failing to settle divisions over the Irish border and immigration on Wednesday.
The “roundtable” brought together cabinet ministers, including Chancellor Philip Hammond , Business Secretary Greg Clark and Trade Secretary Liam Fox , and top Japanese investors in the UK.
Read more
