February 10, 2018
Even if President Trump refuses to grapple with the reality that Russia interfered in 2016 United States election, a struggle between the two world powers continues to be waged in the shadows.
A new report from The Intercept states that the American intelligence community has quietly negotiated with Russia to retrieve classified U.S. documents that the Russians managed to steal. During the proceedings, they also stumbled upon a trove of documents about Donald Trump and Russian 2016 interference.
The Americans and Russians communicated through a secret back channel in order to facilitate the buying back of the classified materials, which has been stolen from the National Security Agency.
The pilfered information included cyber-hacking tools developed by the NSA and stolen by a Russian group called the Shadow Brokers. The brokers then distributed the tools on the internet, and the NSA was desperate to recover the information from the Russians to review the extent of the damage.
It was only after American intelligence established contact with the Russians to recover the NSA documents that they learned about the cache of Trump-Russia related info. The Intercept adds that it’s as yet unclear where the Russian operatives are working freelance for their own benefit or as surrogates of the Russian government.
Reportedly, the CIA has been cautious to proceed too eagerly with the communication channel, for fear of stumbling onto incriminating information about Trump. They fear they won’t be able unrub the lamp once the genie is released.
“The CIA, which is now headed by a Trump loyalist, CIA Director Mike Pompeo, has at times been reluctant to stay involved in the operation, apparently for fear of obtaining the Trump-related material offered by the Russians, according to sources close to the negotiations,” writes James Risen of The Intercept.
Apparently, Pompeo has divided and politicized the CIA so badly that operatives are unsure how rigorously to pursue their duties. Some of them are afraid of getting ahold of information damaging to Trump and there seems to be no unified push to follow the truth wherever it may lead. There is a widespread concern that the president himself could take action and fire anyone who uncovers information he’d prefer remain hidden.
While it’s still unclear what exactly the Trump documents entail, it appears that yet another information crack has appeared in the Trump dam. Eventually, it will break totally, and the truth will come rushing out.
Post navigation
